 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
UNIVERSITY OF KELANIYA  
SRI LANKA  
Faculty of Science  
Stude nt Handbook  
 
 
BACHELOR OF SCIENCE  
AND  BACHELOR OF SCIENCE HONOURS  
DEGREE  PROGRAMMES  
 
BACHELOR OF SCIENCE  IN  
ENVIRONMENTAL CONSERV ATION AND MANAGEMENT  
AND  BACHELOR OF SCIENCE HONOURS IN  
ENVIRONMENTAL CONSERVATION AND MANAGEMENT  
DEGREE  PROGRAMMES  
 
BACHELOR OF SCIENCE IN  
INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY   
DEGREE PROGRAMME  
 
BACHELOR OF SCIENCE IN  
MANAGEMENT AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY  
DEGREE PROGRAMME  
 
BACHELOR OF SCIENCE IN  
PHYSICS AND ELECTRONICS  
DEGREE PROGRAMME  
 
BACHELOR OF SCIENCE HONOURS IN   
APPLIED CHEMISTRY  
DEGREE PROGRAMME  
 
BACHELOR OF SCIENCE HONOURS IN   
ELECTRONICS AND COMPUTER SCIENCE  
DEGREE PROGRAMME  
 
BACHELOR OF SCIENCE HONOURS IN   
INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY  
DEGREE PROGRAMME  
 
BACHELOR OF SCIENCE  HONOURS IN   
MANAGEMENT AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY  
DEGREE  PROGRAMME  
 
BACHELOR OF SCIENCE  HONOURS IN   
SOFTWARE ENGINEERING  
DEGREE  PROGRAMME  
 
BACHELOR OF SCIENCE HONOURS IN  
SPORTS SCIENCE  
DEGREE PROGRAMME  
 
 
 
 
2024/2025 
i 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
UNIVERSITY OF KELANIYA  
SRI LANKA  
 
 
Mission of the Faculty of Science  
 
 
The M ission of the Faculty of Science of the 
University of Kelaniya is to produce highly 
motivated graduates and postgraduates 
capable of making a significant contribution 
towards national development and the well 
being of mankind, to conduct research and 
provide advice and consultancy services in 
various scientific disciplines to foster a better 
understanding of the environment for 
sustainable use and conservation of natural 
resources.  
 
 
ii 
 
CONTENTS 
 
1. BSc AND BSc HONS DEGREE 1 
 1.1 Preamble 2 
 1.2 Sri Lanka Qualifications Framework 3 
 1.3 Notations of Course Units and Abbreviations Used 4 
 1.4 Bachelor of Science Degree Programmes (SLQF 5) 5 
 1.5 Bachelor of Science Honours Degree Programmes (SLQF 6) 6 
 1.6 Registration for Course units 14 
 1.7 Changes of Course units 14 
 1.8 Attendance 14 
1.9 Non-GPA safety module for the undergraduate students 14 
 
2. ASSESSMENT CRITERIA 15 
 2.1 Assessment Procedure 16 
 2.2 Grading System 16 
 2.3 Repeating a Course Unit in Examination 16 
 2.4 Grade Point Average 16 
 2.5 BSc Degree 17 
 2.6 BSc (ENCM) Degree 18 
 2.7 BSc (PE) Degree 19 
2.8 BSc Hons Degree 20 
 2.9 BSc Hons (ENCM) Degree  22 
 2.10 BSc Hons (MIT)/ BSc Hons (IT) Degree  25 
2.11 Introduction of an Exit Point at the end of Level 3 for the  
 BSc Hons (MIT)/(IT) Degree 27 
 2.12 BSc Hons (SENG) Degree  29 
2.13 BSc Hons (BECS) Degree 31 
2.14 BSc Hons (APCH) Degree 32 
2.15 BSc Hons (BSSS) Degree 33 
 2.16 Award of the Degree 35 
 
3. COURSE STRUCTURE BSc DEGREE 36 
 3.1 Course Structure for BSc Degree - BS 37 
 3.2 Course Structure for BSc Degree - PS 40 
 3.3 Course Structure for BSc Degree - PE 43 
 3.4 Course Structure for BSc Degree - ENCM 45 
 
4. COURSE STRUCTURE BSc HONS DEGREE 46 
 4.1 Honours Degree Biological Sciences - Course Structure 
  Biochemistry, Chemistry, Computer Studies, Environmental Conservation 
and Management, Microbiology, Molecular Biology & Plant Biotechnology, 
Plant Biology, Zoology 47 
 4.2 Honours Degree Physical Sciences - Course Structure 
  Chemistry, Computer Science, Computer Studies, Electronics,  
  Mathematics, Mathematical Physics, Physics, Statistics 49 
 4.3 Honours Degree Management and Information Technology & Honours 
Degree Information Technology - Course Structure 
 Information Technology, Management and Technology 51 
 4.4 Honours Degree – Course Structure 
 Software Engineering (SENG) 53 
4.5 Honours Degree – Course Structure 
 Applied Chemistry (APCH) 55 
4.6 Honours Degree – Course Structure 
 Electronics and Computer Science (BECS) 57 
4.7 Honours Degree – Course Structure 
 Sports Science (BSSS) 59 
 
 
 
 
 
iii 
 
 
5. COURSE UNITS 61 
 Academic Literacy (ACLT) 62 
Complementary Skill Development (CMSK) 62 
Management and Computer Studies (MACS) 63  
  Compulsory Course Units for BS, PS, PE, ENCM, MIT, IT, SENG, APCH,  
 BECS and BSSS Streams 64 
Applied Mathematics (AMAT) 65 
 Applied Chemistry (APCH) 67 
 Biochemistry (BIOC) 68 
 Electronics and Computer Science (BECS) 69 
 Sports Science (BSSS) 72 
 Chemistry (CHEM) 74 
 Computer Science (COSC) 76 
 Computer Studies (COST) 78 
 Electronics (ELEC) 80 
 Environmental Conservation and Management (ENCM) 82 
 Generic Competencies (GNCT) 84 
 Industrial Management (IMGT) 84 
 Information Technology (INTE) 84 
 Management for Physical Science Students (MAPS) 85 
 Management and Technology (MGTE) 86 
 Microbiology (MIBI) 87 
 Molecular Biology and Plant Biotechnology (MBBT) 89 
 Physics (PHYS) 90 
 Plant Biology (PLBL) 92 
 Pure Mathematics (PMAT) 94 
 Software Engineering (SENG) 96 
 Statistics (STAT) 98 
 Zoology (ZOOL) 100 
 
6. List of Course Units Offered by Other Faculties to the Students in the Faculty of 
Science. 102 
 
7. List of Certificate Courses Offered by Other Faculties to the Students in the Faculty 
of Science. 104 
Handbook-2024/2025, Faculty of Science, University of Kelaniya 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
BSc and  BSc Hons  
Degree Programmes  
 
Handbook-2024/2025, Faculty of Science, University of Kelaniya 
2 
1.1 Preamble 
The Faculty of Science of the University of  Kelaniya consists of eight academic 
Departments: Department of Chemistry, Industrial Management, Mathematics, 
Microbiology, Physics and Electronics , Plant and Molecular Biology, Statistics & 
Computer Science, & Zoology and Environmental Management; and two units, namely 
the Software Engineering Teaching Unit, and the Sports and Exercise Science Unit. 
Academic programmes of the Faculty operate on a ‘Course Unit System’ , i.e., a 
modularized credit -based system within a two -semester academic year with end of 
course examinations. It offers a variety of course combinations  designed to provide 
maximum possible flexibility in the choice of subjects. 
 
The Faculty of Science offers 3 Bachelor of Science Degree Programmes of 3 -year 
duration and 20 Bachelor of Science Honours Degree Programmes of 4-year duration. 
 
The Bachelor of Science Degree Programmes are  
(i) Bachelor of Science, 
(ii) Bachelor of Science in Environmental Conservation and Management (ENCM) 
(iii) Bachelor of Science in Physics and Electronics (PE) 
 
The Bachelor of Science Honours Degree Programmes are 
(i) Bachelor of Science Honours in Applied Chemistry, 
(ii) Bachelor of Science Honours in Biochemistry, 
(iii) Bachelor of Science Honours in Chemistry, 
(iv) Bachelor of Science Honours in Computer Science, 
(v) Bachelor of Science Honours in Computer Studies, 
(vi) Bachelor of Science Honours in Electronics, 
(vii) Bachelor of Science Honours in Electronics and Computer Science, 
(viii) Bachelor of Science Honours in Environmental Conservation and Management, 
(ix) Bachelor of Science Honours in Information Technology, 
(x) Bachelor of Science Honours in Management and Information Technology, 
(xi) Bachelor of Science Honours in Mathematical Physics, 
(xii) Bachelor of Science Honours in Mathematics, 
(xiii) Bachelor of Science Honours in Microbiology, 
(xiv) Bachelor of Science Honours in Molecular Biology and Plant Biotechnology, 
(xv) Bachelor of Science Honours in Physics, 
(xvi) Bachelor of Science Honours in Plant Biology, 
(xvii) Bachelor of Science Honours in Software Engineering, 
(xviii) Bachelor of Science Honours in Sports Science, 
(xix) Bachelor of Science Honours in Statistics, and 
(xx) Bachelor of Science Honours in Zoology. 
 
The duration of a semester is 15 weeks. After 15 weeks of teaching, a study leave period 
of 2 weeks is given, followed by the end of course examinations conducted within 3 to 
4 weeks. Examinations of laboratory course units are usually conducted either during 
the last week of the semester or during the examination period. 
A course unit is a subject module that has a credit value. A credit is a time  based 
quantitative measure used in calculating the grade point average. The course modules 
are organized at four Years of Study, namely; Year of Study 1, Year of Study 2, Year of 
Study 3, and Year of Study 4.  
Handbook-2024/2025, Faculty of Science, University of Kelaniya 
3 
 
For Years of Study 1, 2, and 3 course units, and credit ratings are as follows: 
 
 For course units with lectures only 
 15 contact hours = 1 credit 
 
 For course units with laboratory work only 
 30 – 45 hours of laboratory work = 1 credit 
 60 – 75 hours of laboratory work = 2 credits 
 
 For course units with both lectures and laboratory/field work 
 10 contact hours + 15 hours of laboratory work = 1 credit 
(or any combination of contact hours (< 15) and practical work where one 
contact hour to be replaced by 3 hours of laboratory/field work = 1 credit) 
 
Theory course units a Year of Study 4 with 15 hours of lectures, seminars, and tutorials 
in any combination carry a credit rating of one. Laboratory course units and research 
projects at Year of Study 4 with 30 hours of laboratory or field work carry a credit rating 
of one. A Year of Study 4 lecture cum practical course unit with 10 hours of lectures plus 
15 hours of laboratory or 15 hours of field work also carries a credit rating of one. 
 
1.2 Sri Lanka Qualifications Framework 
The Sri Lanka Qualifications Framework (SLQF) is a nationally consistent framework for 
all higher education qualifications offered in Sri Lanka. The SLQF applies to all Higher 
Education Institutions (HEIs), both public and private, comprising of 12 Years of Study. 
SLQF recognizes the volume of learning of students and identifies the learning outcomes 
that are to be achieved by the qualification holders. 
 
SLQF 
Level I Qualification awarded Minimum Volume of Learning for the Award 
SLQF 6 Bachelor of Science 
Honours 
120 credits after GCE (A/L) 
of which 90 credits after SLQF 3, 
of which 60 credits after SLQF 4, 
of which 30 credits after SLQF 5 
SLQF 5 Bachelor of Science 
90 credits after GCE (A/L) 
of which 60 credits after SLQF 3, 
of which 30 credits after SLQF 4 
SLQF 4  60 credits after GCE (A/L) 
of which 30 credits after SLQF 3 
SLQF 3  30 credits after GCE (A/L) 
 
The SLQF Level 3, 4, and 5 correspond sequentially to the first, second, and third years 
of study of an undergraduate study programme leading to Bachelors qualification. The 
SLQF Level 6 corresponds to the fourth year of study of an undergraduate study 
programme leading to a Bachelors Honours qualification. 
According to SLQF guidelines, 1 credit is equivalent to 50 notional learning hours for a 
taught course, laboratory studies course, or field studies. In the case of industrial  
 
training/professional placement/internship/research projects, 1 credit is equivalent to 
a minimum of 100 notional learning hours. 
Handbook-2024/2025, Faculty of Science, University of Kelaniya 
4 
 
1.3 Notations of Course Units and Abbreviations Used 
There are three types of  course units, namely Compulsory (C), Optional (O) , and 
Auxiliary (A). 
 
All compulsory course units  of a given subject together form the minimum subject 
content required to be completed by a student following those units as the subject. 
 
The optional course units are those outside the compulsory of a particular subject. 
 
The auxiliary course units of a subject are, in general, designed to provide fundamental 
knowledge and to develop some skills in selected areas of the subject. Auxiliary course 
units of a subject are offered, without any prerequisites, to all students other than those 
who are following that as a subject. 
 
An alpha numeric code is used to identify a unit. The code consists of five digits prefixed 
by a set of four letters which refers to the principal discipline of the course content of 
the unit. 
 
The first digit denotes the Level of the course unit , whereas the fifth digit signifies its 
credit value. The second digit indicates the semester in which the course unit is offered 
(1 – first semester, 2 – second semester, 3 – both first & second semesters, 4 – either 
the first or the second semester). The third and fourth digits together form a number 
assigned by the Department that conducts it. 
 
The academic disciplines designated by the 4 letters in the code are as follows: 
 
Academic Literacy ACLT 
 Applied Chemistry* APCH 
 Applied Mathematics AMAT 
 Biochemistry* BIOC 
Biological Science Compulsory Course Units* BIOL 
Chemistry* CHEM 
 Complementary Skill Development  CMSK 
 Computer Science* COSC 
Computer Studies* COST 
Electronics* ELEC 
Electronics and Computer Science* BECS 
Environmental Conservation and Management*  ENCM 
Generic Competencies GNCT 
Industrial Management IMGT 
Information Technology* INTE 
Management & Computer Studies  MACS 
 Management for Physical Science Students* MAPS 
 Management and Technology* MGTE 
 Microbiology* MIBI 
Molecular Biology and Plant Biotechnology* MBBT 
 Multi-Disciplinary Group Project* MDGP 
 Physics* PHYS
 Plant Biology* PLBL 
Professional Placement PRPL 
Handbook-2024/2025, Faculty of Science, University of Kelaniya 
5 
Pure Mathematics PMAT 
Software Engineering* SENG 
Sports Science* BSSS 
 Statistics* STAT 
Zoology* ZOOL 
 
* - with a practical component 
 
Some course units require courses of study that must previously be completed before 
students are allowed to follow them. Such courses of study are called pre -requisites 
(PR). Some of the pre -requisites are subjects taken for the GCE (Advanced Level) 
Examination. Some other course units require specific course units called co-requisites 
(CR) to be taken simultaneously with them. Practical course units are co -requisites for 
theory course units and vice-versa. 
 
1.4 Bachelor of Science Degree Programmes (SLQF 5) 
Students following the BSc Degree, BSc (ENCM) Degree, and BSc (PE) Degree are 
required to follow only the Years of Study 1, 2, and 3 course units. Course units to be 
completed during each academic year by the students following the BSc Degree, BSc 
(ENCM) Degree, and BSc (PE) Degree Programmes are given in Pages from 17 to 19 of 
this Handbook. After deciding on a particular subject combination, a student should 
take all course units in the category ‘C’ of the selected subjects and a sufficient number 
of units in categories ‘O’ and ‘A’, as the timetable permits, to make up at least 30 credits 
in each academic year. A student may take course units aggregating to a total of not 
more than 6 credits with only 2 credits per semester from the other Faculties  for the 
Degree Programme. Students are advised to consult an academic advisor of the Faculty 
before deciding on their choice of course units. 
 
All credits accumulated by a student over the entire three academic year period shall 
be considered for the computation of the Grade Point Average (GPA) in respect of the 
BSc Degree Programme, the BSc (ENCM) Degree Programme, and BSc (PE) Degree 
Programme unless stated otherwise. 
 
1.4.1 Biological Science 
The UGC selects 221 students with the additional intake  from the GCE A/L Biological 
Science stream. Selection of students for preferred subjects in Biological Science 
streams will be carried out at the beginning of the second semester of the First Year of 
Study based on the performance at examinations in the first semester of the first year 
of study whe n demand exceeds capacity.  The limited enrolment of the  
Biological Sciences streams is  allocated as 60 students for  Biochemistry 
(BIOC), 25 students for Computer Studies (COST) and 60  students for Microbiology 
(MIBI). All the students must follow all the stream compulsory course units (page 37) as 
specified for the first semester of the first Year of Study.  
 
All students can follow the Computer Studies course unit COST 11012  during the first 
semester of the first Year of Study . Those who wish to follow Computer Studies as a 
subject must follow COST 11012 and COST 11023  during the first semester of the first 
Year of Study. 
 
Handbook-2024/2025, Faculty of Science, University of Kelaniya 
6 
1.4.2 Environmental Conservation and Management 
The UGC selection of 109 students with the additional intake is made from the GCE A/L 
Biological Scien ce stream in a separate window. The course structure for this 
programme is given on page 45. 
 
1.4.3 Physical Science 
The UGC selects 362 students with the additional intake  from the  GCE A/L Physical 
Science stream. Selection of students for preferred subjects in the Physical Science 
streams will be carried out at the beginning of the First Year of Study when demand 
exceeds capacity. The limited enrolment of the Physical Sciences streams is allocated as 
150 students for Computer Science (COSC), 25 students for Computer Studies (COST), 
40 st udents for Electronics (ELEC),  and 125 students for Statistics (STAT).  The course 
structure for this programme is given on page 40. 
 
1.4.4 Physics and Electronics 
The UGC makes selections of students from the GCE A/L , and the number is limited to 
76 students with the additional intake . The course structure for this programme is 
given on page 43. 
 
1.5 Bachelor of Science Honours Degree Programmes (SLQF 6) 
Students are enrolled on some Honours programmes through a direct intake, whereas 
for BSc Degree, BSc (ENCM) Degree, and BSc (PE) Degree students are enrolled at the 
end of the second Year of Study based on merit. 
 
1.5.1 Honours Degrees with direct intake 
Students who have been selected to follow the Bachelor of Science Honours in Applied 
Chemistry (APCH) and Bachelor of Science Honours in Sports Science (BSSS) Degree 
programmes will follow a fix a relevant path in all academic years. 
 
(i) Applied Chemistry (APCH) 
The Applied Chemistry programme has been designed to provide the 
necessary knowledge and understanding of the fundamental principles of 
chemistry and its applications, skills in analytical techniques used in 
laboratories, advanced knowledge in industrial related areas of chemistry, 
thus diversifying the undergraduate degree programme in re lation to the 
national and global needs, the programme enhances  employability 
graduates and career prospects. 
 
(ii) Sports Science (BSSS) 
The BSSS degree program is designed to equip students with knowledge, 
skills, attitudes and mind-set that will benefit their personal lives as well as 
career opportunity in the field of sports. Four (4) weeks foundation 
Programme will be conducted to provi de a foundation in science and 
general key skills to prepare students for the BSSS programme. The 
foundation programme offers a direct pathway to the BSSS degree within a 
fully integrated programme. This is an excellent route for the students who 
have studied GCE A/L subjects that are different from those usually required 
for Sports Science courses. For the satisfactory completion of the 
foundation programme, student will be awarded a Certificate of 
Completion. 
Handbook-2024/2025, Faculty of Science, University of Kelaniya 
7 
Students who have  been selected to follow the Bachelor of Science  Honours in 
Management and Information Technology  (MIT)/ Information Technology (IT)  Degree 
programme, Bachelor of Science Honours in Software Engineering D egree programme 
(SENG), and the Bachelor of  Science Honours in Electron ics and Computer Science 
(BECS) enrol directly for the said programmes from their first academic year. At the end 
of the first/second academic year, the students may select different paths as follows. 
 
(iii) Management and Information Technology (MIT) / Information               
Technology (IT) 
This four-year Honours Degree Programmes  offer a wide range of 
knowledge and skills as a blend of management and information technology 
disciplines. The students who get selected will have to opt for either the BSc 
Hons in MIT degree programme or the BSc Hons in Information Technology 
degree programme at the end of the first Year of Study. The final assignment 
of the student into the degree programme will be done based on stud ent 
performance and preference. 
 
The subsequent three years of the BSc Hons in IT degree programme will 
focus on building the information technology competencies of the students, 
depending on their career objective s. The programme is designed taking 
into consideration the increasing national and international need for 
computing professionals. The curriculum of the programme follows the 
latest guidelines of recognized professional bodies such as the ACM and IEEE 
and aims at equipping students with the necessary knowledge and skills to 
choose a career in the field of information technology , including software 
engineering, data science, systems engineering, database administration, 
network engineering, business analysis, and software quality engineering. 
 
Those selected students for the BSc Hons in MIT programme have the 
opportunity to  specialize in one of the following areas at the end of the 
second Year of Study; Business Systems Engineering (BSE), Operations and 
Supply Chain Management (OSCM), and Information Systems (IS). 
 
a) Business Systems Engineering (BSE) 
Business Systems Engineering is a detailed approach to identifying and 
implementing the business processes, tasks, and transactions  required 
to successfully operate a business. To compete in the global market, it 
is essential that our organizations re -engineer their processes with 
world-class management best practices, enabled by the use of 
Information Technology in order to exploit these business 
opportunities. 
 
b) Operations and Supply Chain Management (OSCM) 
The curriculum of this programme is based on Information Technology 
enabled application of world -class best practices for the management 
of supply chain operations. Hence, the programme aims to deliver 
professional knowledge and skills in Business Process Management 
customized to applications in the field of Operations and Supply Chain 
Management. 
Handbook-2024/2025, Faculty of Science, University of Kelaniya 
8 
c) Information Systems (IS) 
Information systems play a strategic role in ensuring that key decision -
makers are provided  with timely information to make business 
decisions. It enhances operational effectiveness in delivering products 
and services to its customers and assists to maximize returns to 
stakeholders. Therefore, the management of information technology 
resources becomes crucial if the business succeeds in this dynamic and 
competitive environment. The prime objective of the ‘Information 
Systems’ specialization is to develop professionals equipped with the 
necessary knowledge and skills to assess technology needs, procure , 
maintain and improve information systems that are tightly bound with 
organizational strategies and processes while managing the necessary 
human and physical resources. 
 
Apart from the knowledge and skills, both degree programmes also inculcate the 
necessary soft skills required for the graduates to be successfully absorbed into the 
professional world. 
 
Students may opt for the three-year BSc (MIT)/BSc (IT) degree by requesting the end of 
their third Year of Study provided that they have completed the necessary requirements 
for the award of the degree mentioned under 2.11. 
 
(iv) Software Engineering (SENG) 
This four-year degree programme, designed according to the internationally 
accepted ACM guidelines, helps students to gain essential skills, knowledge, 
engineering practice,  and attitudes required to function as software 
engineers in the local and international  industries. An internship  
opportunity of six months will provide necessary industry exposure to the 
students to enhance their technical knowledge, skills,  and professional 
practices. In addition, the one -year software engineering research 
component is a unique feature of this prog ramme. The students following 
this degree programme  have provided the flexibility to specialize in their 
own field of interest by incorporating six (06) specialized application 
domains; Net Centric, Mobile Computing, Digital Gaming and Animations, 
Health Informatics, Business Engineering Applications, and Data Science and 
Engineering Applications, to the curriculum. 
 
a) Net Centric 
Net centric specialization aims to develop  the advanced skills and 
knowledge required to become successful software engineers 
in the advanced web application, distributed and cloud computing and 
semantic web and ontological engineering. 
 
b) Mobile Computing 
Mobile computing is a rapidly emerging area of computing  that has 
enormous market potential and growth. Mobile computing 
specialization provides thorough knowledge about mobile computing 
technologies, mobile networks, and  builds advanced skills in mobile 
application development. 
 
Handbook-2024/2025, Faculty of Science, University of Kelaniya 
9 
c) Digital Gaming and Animation 
This specialization provides knowledge about cutting -edge digital 
gaming and animation technologies and builds advanced skills essential 
to cater the requirements of the digital gaming and animation industry. 
 
d) Health Informatics 
This specialization aims to provide advanced knowledge about health 
information management, health information system design and 
development and medical imaging and biomedical signal processing. 
The software engineering skills blended with medical informatics will fill 
the gap in the industry for health informaticians with advanced software 
engineering skills. 
 
e) Business Engineering Applications 
Software engineering is an integral part of modern business 
applications. Business engineering applications specialization provides 
the essential knowledge and skills  required for a software engineer to 
design and implement solutions to improve  business processes and 
services. The curriculum includes business systems modelling and 
optimization, computer -based operations management, and business 
process engineering. 
 
f) Data Science and Engineering Applications 
Data Science and engineering applications aim to equip the students 
with the advanced knowledge and skills required for building business 
intelligence and management support systems, designing and 
developing big data infrastructures,  and analysing big data to deliver 
insights and discover new relations. 
 
(v) Electronics and Computer Science (BECS) 
Students those selected for the BSc Hons in Electronics and Computer 
Science programme have the opportunity to specialize either in (i ) 
Electronics subject discipline or (ii) Computer Science subject discipline at 
the end of the second Year of Study. Selection of students to specialize in 
one subject discipline is based on the academic performance of the students 
during the first two aca demic years in the course modules relevant to the 
particular subject discipline.  Since the number of opportunities to be 
specialize in one subject discipline is limited depending on the facilities 
available at each department, the following requirement mus t be fulfilled 
in order for a student to apply to be specialized in the subject discipl ine of 
the interest.  
A student should have obtained a GPA of 3 00 or greater for compulsory 
course modules in the relevant subject offered in the Years of Study 1 and 
2, aggregating to 24 credits (for Electronics) counted for GPA or 23 credits 
(for Computer Science) counted for GPA. In addition, a student should 
obtain grades of C or better for all the course modules mentioned above 
and should not have obtained either D/D+/C - grades in course modules 
offered in the Year of Study 1 and Year of Study 2 aggregating to more than 
8 credits, or E grades in course units offered in the Years of Study 1 and Year 
of Study 2. The maximum number of students for the BSc Hons Degree 
Handbook-2024/2025, Faculty of Science, University of Kelaniya 
10 
Programmes (particular subject discipline)  are determined by the 
Departments depending on the facilities available each year. 
 
1.5.2 Honours Degree with Intakes at the End of the Second Year of Study 
At the end of the second Year of Study, a student may apply to  follow the BSc 
Hons Degree Programme in any one of the following subjects: Biochemistry, 
Chemistry, Computer Science, Computer Studies,  Electronics, Environmental 
Conservation and Management, Mathematics,  Mathematical Physics, 
Microbiology, Molecular Biology  and Plant Biotechnology, Physics,  Plant 
Biology, Statistics, and Zoology. 
 
The minimum requirements to apply for the BSc Hons Degree Programmes are 
as follows: 
 
(i) Biochemistry 
A student should have obtained a GPA of 3 00 or higher and grades of C 
or better in the compulsory course units for the Years of study 1 and 2 in 
Biochemistry, including BIOL 11532 Basic Biochemistry and B grades for 
additional 2 credits from following course units; CHEM 11622 General 
Chemistry/CHEM 11631 Basic Chemical Analysis Laboratory/CHEM 12661 
Basic Organic Chemistry Laboratory/CHEM 21672 Analytical 
Chemistry/CHEM 22712 Organic Synthesis, Spectroscopy and 
Aromaticity/CHEM 22721 Analytical Chemistry Laboratory. In addition, 
the student should  not have obtained either D/D+/C - grades in course 
units offered in the Years of Study 1 and 2 aggregating to more than 8 
credits or E grades in course units offered in the Years of Study 1 and 2. 
  
(ii) Chemistry 
A student should have obtained a GPA of 3 00 or higher and grades of C 
or better in the compulsory course units for the Years of study 1 and 2 in 
Chemistry. In addition, the student should not have obtained either 
D/D+/C- grades in course units offered in the Years of Study 1 and 2 
aggregating to more than 8 credits or E grades in course units offered in 
the Years of Study 1 and 2. 
 
(iii) Computer Science 
A student should have obtained a GPA of 300 or higher and grades of C 
or better in the compulsory course units for the Years of study 1 and 2 in 
Computer Science. In addition, the student should not have obtained 
either D/D+/C- grades in course units offered in the Years of Study 1 and 
2 aggregating to more than 8 credits or E grades in course units offered in 
the Years of Study 1 and 2. The maximum number of students for the BSc 
Hons Degree Programme is determined by the Department depending on 
the facilities available each year. 
 
(iv) Computer Studies 
A student should have obtained a GPA of 300 or higher and grades of C 
or better in the compulsory course units for the Years of study 1 and 2 in 
Computer Studies. In addition, the student should not have obtained 
Handbook-2024/2025, Faculty of Science, University of Kelaniya 
11 
either D/D+/C- grades in course units offered in the Years of Study 1 and 
2 aggregating to more than 8 credits or E grades in course units offered in 
the Years of Study 1 and 2. The maximum number of students for the BSc 
Hons Degree Programme is determined by the Department depending on 
the facilities available each year. 
 
(v) Electronics 
A student should have obtained a GPA of 3·00 or higher and grades of C 
or better in the compulsory course units for the Years of study 1 and 2 in 
Electronics. In addition, the student should not have obtained either 
D/D+/C- grades in course units offered in the Years of Study 1 and 2 
aggregating to more than 8 credits or E grades in course units offered in 
the Years of Study 1 and 2. The maximum number of students for the BSc 
Hons Degree Programme is determined by the Department depending on 
the facilities available each year. 
 
(vi) Environmental Conservation and Management (ENCM) 
A student should have obtained a GPA of 300 or higher and grades of C 
or better in the compulsory course units for the Years of study 1 and 2 
that are relevant to the specialisation subject of the Honours Degree 
Programme. In addition, the student should not have obtained either 
D/D+/C- grades in course units offered in the Years of Study 1 and 2 
aggregating to more than 8 credits or E grades in course units offered in 
the Years of Study 1 and 2. In addition, a student should have obtained 
grades of B or better aggregating to at least 40 credits from ENCM, CHEM, 
MIBI, PLBL, ZOOL compulsory course units offered in the Years of Study 1 
and 2 prescribed for the degree programme.  
 
(vii) Mathematical Physics 
A student should have obtained a GPA of 3.00 or higher and grades of C 
or better in the compulsory course units for Years of study 1 and 2 that 
are relevant to the Mathematical Physics Honours Degree Programme, 
namely Applied Mathematics, Physics, and Pure Mathematics. In addition, 
the student should not have obtained either D/D+/C - grades in course 
units offered in Years of Study 1 and 2 aggregating to more than 8 credits, 
or E grades in course units offered in Years of Study 1 and 2. The maximum 
number of students for the BSc Hons Degree Programme is determined 
by the Departments depending on the facilities available each year. 
 
(viii) Mathematics (Pure Mathematics and Applied Mathematics) 
A student should have obtained a GPA of 300 or higher and grades of C 
or better in the compulsory course units for the Years of study 1 and 2 in 
Pure Mathematics, aggregating 20 credits, and Applied Mathematics, 
aggregating 18 credits. In addition, the student should not have obtained 
either D/D+/C- grades in course units offered in the Years of Study 1 and 
2 aggregating to more than 8 credits or E grades in course units offered in 
the Years of Study 1 and 2. The maximum number of students for the BSc 
Hons Degree Programme is determined by the Department depending on 
the facilities available each year. 
Handbook-2024/2025, Faculty of Science, University of Kelaniya 
12 
(ix) Mathematics (Pure Mathematics and Statistics) 
A student should have obtained a GPA of 300 or higher and grades of C 
or better in the compulsory course units for the Years of study 1 and 2 in 
Pure Mathematics, aggregating 20 credits, and Statistics, aggregating 20 
credits. In addition, the student should not have obtained either D/D+/C- 
grades in course units offered in the Years of Study 1 and 2 aggregating to 
more than 8 credits or E grades in course units offered in the Years of 
Study 1 and 2. The maximum number of students for the BSc Hons Degree 
Programme is determined by the Department depending on the facilities 
available each year. 
  
(x) Microbiology 
A student should have obtained a GPA of 300 or higher and grades of C 
or better for compulsory course units offered in the Years of Study 1 and 
2 in Microbiology and BIOL 11512 Scope and Fundamentals of 
Microbiology, aggregating to at least 20 credits. In addition, a student 
should not have obtained either D/D+/C- grades for course units offered 
in the Years of Study 1 and 2 aggregating to more than 8 credits or E grades 
for course units offered in the Years of Study 1 and 2. 
 
(xi) Molecular Biology and Plant Biotechnology 
A student should have obtained a GPA of 300 or higher and grades of C 
or better in the compulsory course units for the Years of study 1 and 2 in 
Plant Biology. Also, the student should have obtained grades of B or better 
for BIOL 11512 Scope and Fundamentals of Microbiology aggregating to 
22 credits, with grades of B+ or above for BIOL 11522 Genetics and PLBL 
21532 Fundamentals of Molecular Biology. In addition, the student should 
not have obtained either D/D+/C- grades in course units offered in the 
Years of Study 1 and 2 aggregating to more than 8 credits or E grades in 
course units offered in the Years of Study 1 and 2. 
 
(xii) Physics 
A student should have obtained a GPA of 3·00 or higher and grades of C 
or better in the compulsory course units for the Years of study 1 and 2 in 
Physics. In addition, the student should not have obtained either D/D+/C- 
grades in course units offered in the Years of Study 1 and 2 aggregating to 
more than 8 credits or E grades in course units offered in the Years of 
Study 1 and 2. The maximum number of students for the BSc Hons Degree 
Programme is determined by the Department depending on the facilities 
available each year. 
 
(xiii) Plant Biology 
A student should have obtained a GPA of 300 or higher and grades of C 
or better in the compulsory course units for the Years of study 1 and 2 in 
Plant Biology. Also, the student should have obtained grades of B or better 
for BIOL 11512 Scope and Fundamentals of Microbiology and BIOL 11522 
Genetics aggregating to 22 credits. In addition, the student should not 
have obtained either D/D+/C- grades in course units offered in the Years 
Handbook-2024/2025, Faculty of Science, University of Kelaniya 
13 
of Study 1 and 2 aggregating to more than 8 credits or E grades in course 
units offered in the Years of Study 1 and 2. 
 
(xiv) Statistics 
A student should have obtained a GPA of 300 or higher and grades of C 
or better in the compulsory course units for the Years of study 1 and 2 in 
Statistics. In addition, the student should not have obtained either 
D/D+/C- grades in course units offered in the Years of Study 1 and 2 
aggregating to more than 8 credits or E grades in course units offered in 
the Years of Study 1 and 2. The maximum number of students for the BSc 
Hons Degree Programme is determined by the Department depending on 
the facilities available each year. 
 
(xv) Zoology 
A student should have obtained a GPA of 300 or higher and grades of C 
or better in the compulsory course units for the Years of study 1 and 2 in 
Zoology. In addition, the student should not have obtained either D/D+/C- 
grades in course units offered in the Years of Study 1 and 2 aggregating to 
more than 8 credits or E grades in course units offered in the Years of 
Study 1 and 2. In addition, a student should have obtained grades of B or 
better in compulsory course units in Zoology offered in the Years of Study 
1 and 2 and BIOL 11552 Evolutionary Biology and Biogeography, BIOL 
11512 Scope and Fundamentals of Microbiology, and BIOL 11522 
Genetics, aggregating to at least 20 credits.  
 
Selection criteria may be varied at the discretion of the Department concerned. A 
student selected for the BSc Hons Degree Programme must obtain the approval of the 
relevant Head/Heads of the Department/Departments for the course units he/she 
intends to follow before enrolling for the programme. 
 
During the Year of Study 4, an Honours Degree student should carry out a 
research/study project on a given topic under the supervision of a senior member of 
the academic staff assigned by the Department/Departments. 
 
All credits accumulated by a student over the entire four Years of Study shall be 
considered for the computation of the Grade Point Average (GPA) in respect of the 
BSc Hons Degree Programme in the relevant subject unless stated otherwise. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Handbook-2024/2025, Faculty of Science, University of Kelaniya 
14 
1.6 Registration for Course Units 
Students are strongly advised to obtain advice from relevant academic advisors 
prior to registration for course units and must complete their registration for 
selected course combinations at the beginning of the commencement of each 
Year of Study. A student must also ensure that he/she fulfils the required 
prerequisites.  
 
1.7 Changes of Course Units 
A student wishing to drop or add an optional or auxiliary course units may do so 
within the first two weeks of the relevant semester. No changes in enrolment 
for course units shall be permitted later than the stipulated period. 
 
1.8 Attendance  
For all theoretical/ lecture cum practical course modules, a minimum of 90% of 
the marks are assigned based on assessments (including continuous 
assessments), and a maximum of 10% of the marks are allocated based on 
lecture attendance. However, the lecturer has the flexibility to decide on the 
percentage, and students will be informed at the beginning of the respective 
course module. 
 
If the attendance of a student at a laboratory course unit is between 50%-79%, the best 
grade obtainable by a student for that course unit will be "C", and if the attendance of 
a student at a laboratory course unit is less than 50%, the best grade obtainable by the 
student will be "D". 
 
If a student is not participating in the lecture(s), laboratory session(s) and 
examination(s) due to medical reasons, a medical certificate should be submitted within 
14 days from the day of absence as evidence. If the medical certificate was obtained 
from a facility other than the University Medical Centre, please refer to the University 
Handbook for the applicable rules and regulations. 
 
1.9 Non-GPA Safety Module for the Undergraduate Students 
The Non-GPA safety module is mandatory for all students and has to be completed at 
the beginning of each Academic Year before the commencement of the Semester I 
Laboratory sessions. 
 
The content of the module is as follows: 
(i) General Safety  
(ii) Electrical Safety and Specific Safety Rules in Physics and Electronics Laboratories  
(iii) Safety in Computer Laboratories 
(iv) Safety in Biological Science Laboratories  
(v) Safety in Chemical Laboratories  
 
The module includes an MCQ quiz, and each student must attain a minimum qualifying 
score to be eligible for laboratory sessions. Students who do not pass on their first 
attempt may retake the quiz an unlimited number of times before the semester begins. 
Successfully passing this assessment is mandatory for participation in laboratory work. 
  
 
Handbook-2024/2025, Faculty of Science, University of Kelaniya 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2. ASSESSMENT CRITERIA  
Handbook-2024/2025, Faculty of Science, University of Kelaniya 
16 
2.1 Assessment Procedure 
Student performance at a course unit is generally assessed through assignments, 
reports, presentations, and end of course examinations. The relevant Department will 
announce the method of assessment at the commencement of a course unit. Students 
can also access course details by logging in to the relevant department web site. A 
dissertation and an oral presentation assess the research projects of the BSc Hons 
Degree Programme. 
 
2.2 Grading System 
Marks obtained in respect of a course unit will be graded according to the following 
grading system. A grade point value as indicated below is assigned to each grade. 
 
 Range of Marks     Grade      Grade Point Value 
 
 85-100   A+ 40 
 70-84   A 40 
 65-69   A- 37 
 60-64   B+ 33 
 55-59   B 30 
 50-54   B- 27 
 45-49   C+ 23 
 40-44   C 20 
 35-39   C- 17 
 30-34   D+ 13 
 25-29   D 10 
 00-24   E 00 
 
Students should complete all course units that they are registered for, and if they fail to 
complete a particular course unit, it will be indicated in the transcript as “absent”, and 
a zero (0) grade-point value will be assigned to it. 
 
2.3 Repeating a Course Unit in Examination 
A student who does not obtain a grade of C or better in a particular course unit may re-
sit the examination of that course unit in the following academic year of the course unit 
submitting a repeat application to improve the grade. The best grade obtainable by a 
student in this instance would be C. If a student obtains a lower grade while attempting 
to better the grade, he/she will be entitled to the previous grade. 
 
2.4 Grade Point Average 
 Grade Point Average (GPA) is the credit-weighted arithmetic mean of the Grade Point 
Values, which is determined by dividing the total credit-weighted Grade Point Value by 
the total number of credits. GPA shall be computed to the second decimal place. 
 
Example: A student who has completed one course unit with two credits, three course 
units each of three credits, and two course units each of 1 credit with grades A, C, B, D, 
C+, and A+ respectively would have the GPA of 248 as calculated below. 
 
Handbook-2024/2025, Faculty of Science, University of Kelaniya 
17 
( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) 48462     13
332  113332
041321013033023042 ==+++++
+++++
 
  Grade Point Average     =     248 
 
Grade point values and credit values of all registered course units in a student's study 
programme shall be considered in calculating the final GPA unless stated otherwise. 
 
2.5 Bachelor of Science Degree (SLQF 5) 
2.5.1 Eligibility for the Award of the Bachelor of Science Degree to be eligible  
for  the  BSc  Degree , a student  must  
(i) accumulate grades of D or better in course units, aggregating to at 
least 60 credits during the first two academic years, and aggregating 
to at least 90 credits during the entire three academic year period, 
including the stream compulsory units where applicable, of which at 
least 30 credits must be from each academic year separately,  
(ii) obtain grades of C or better in course units aggregating to at least 72 
credits, of which at least 48 must be from two subjects with at least 
24 credits from each of them, and grades of D or better in course units 
aggregating to at least further 18 credits, considered under (i) above, 
provided that at least one of the above two subjects is with a practical 
component, 
(iii) obtain a GPA of 200 or greater,  
(iv) complete the relevant requirements within a period of five 
consecutive academic years. 
 
2.5.2 Award of Classes 
2.5.2.1 First Class  
A student who is eligible for the BSc Degree may be awarded First Class 
provided he/she 
(i) obtains grades of C or better in course units aggregating to at least 90 
credits, considered under 2.5.1 (ii), 
(ii) obtains grades of A or better in course units aggregating to at least 
half the number of total credits for the course units considered under 
2.5.1 (ii), 
(iii) obtains a GPA of 370 or greater,  
(iv) completes the relevant requirements within three consecutive 
academic years. 
 
2.5.2.2 Second Class (Upper Division)  
A student who is eligible for the BSc Degree may be awarded Second Class 
(Upper Division) provided he/she 
(i) obtains grades of C or better in course units aggregating to at least 80 
credits and grades of D or better in the remaining course units, 
considered under 2.5.1 (ii), 
(ii) obtains grades of B or better in course units aggregating to at least 
half the number of total credits for the course units considered under 
2.5.1 (ii), 
(iii) obtains a GPA of 330 or greater,  
Handbook-2024/2025, Faculty of Science, University of Kelaniya 
18 
(iv) completes the relevant requirements within three consecutive 
academic years. 
 
2.5.2.3 Second Class (Lower Division)  
A student who is eligible for the BSc Degree may be awarded Second Class 
(Lower Division) provided he/she 
(i) obtains grades of C or better in course units aggregating to at least 80 
credits and grades of D or better in the remaining course units, 
considered under 2.5.1 (ii), 
(ii) obtains grades of B or better in course units aggregating to at least 
half the number of total credits for the course units considered under 
2.5.1 (ii), 
(iii) obtains a GPA of 300 or greater,  
(iv) completes the relevant requirements within three consecutive 
academic years. 
 
2.6 Bachelor of Science in Environmental Conservation & Management Degree 
(ENCM) 
2.6.1 Eligibility for the Award of the Bachelor of Science in Environmental 
Conservation & Management Degree 
 To be eligible for the BSc (ENCM) Degree, a student must  
(i) accumulate grades of D or better in course units, aggregating to at 
least 60 credits during the first two academic years, and aggregating 
to at least 90 credits during the entire three academic year period, of 
which at least 30 credits must be from each academic year separately, 
(ii) obtain grades of C or better in course units aggregating to at least 72 
credits, of which not less than 48 must be from compulsory course 
units and grades of D or better in course units aggregating to at least 
further 18 credits, considered under (i) above, with the proviso that 
he/she should not have obtained grades of D/D+/C- in course units 
aggregating to more than 6 credits in each of the three subject areas 
(ENCM course units; PLBL, MIBI, and ZOOL course units; CHEM course 
units), 
(iii) obtain a GPA of 200 or greater, 
(iv) complete the relevant requirements within a period of five 
consecutive academic years. 
 
2.6.2 Award of Classes 
2.6.2.1 First Class  
A student who is eligible for the BSc (ENCM) Degree may be awarded First 
Class provided he/she 
(i) obtains grades of C or better in course units aggregating to at least 90 
credits, considered under 2.6.1 (ii), 
(ii) obtains grades of A or better in course units aggregating to at least 
half the number of total credits for the course units considered under 
2.6.1 (ii), 
(iii) obtains a GPA of 370 or greater,  
Handbook-2024/2025, Faculty of Science, University of Kelaniya 
19 
(iv) completes the relevant requirements within three consecutive 
academic years. 
 
2.6.2.2 Second Class (Upper Division)  
A student who is eligible for the BSc (ENCM) Degree may be awarded Second 
Class (Upper Division) provided he/she 
(i) obtains grades of C or better in course units aggregating to at least 80 
credits and grades of D or better in the remaining course units, 
considered under 2.6.1 (ii), 
(ii) obtains grades of B or better in course units aggregating to at least 
half the number of total credits for the course units considered under 
2.6.1 (ii), 
(iii) obtains a GPA of 330 or greater,  
(iv) completes the relevant requirements within three consecutive 
academic years. 
 
2.6.2.3 Second Class (Lower Division)  
A student who is eligible for the BSc (ENCM) Degree may be awarded Second 
Class (Lower Division) provided he/she 
(i) obtains grades of C or better in course units aggregating to at least 80 
credits and grades of at least D in the remaining course units, 
considered under 2.6.1 (ii), 
(ii) obtains grades of B or better in course units aggregating to at least 
half the number of total credits for the course units considered under 
2.6.1 (ii), 
(iii) obtains a GPA of 300 or greater,  
(iv) completes the relevant requirements within three consecutive 
academic years. 
 
2.7 Bachelor of Science in Physics and Electronics (PE) Degree. (SLQF 5) 
2.7.1 Eligibility for the Award of the Bachelor of Science in Physics and 
Electronics (PE) Degree.  
To be eligible  for  the  BSc  Degree , a student  must  
(i) accumulate grades of D or better in course units, aggregating to at 
least 60 credits during the first two academic years, and aggregating 
to at least 90 credits during the entire three academic year period, 
including the stream compulsory units where applicable, of which at 
least 30 credits must be from each academic year separately,  
(ii) obtain grades of C or better in course units aggregating to at least 72 
credits, of which at least 48 must be from two subjects, physics (PHYS) 
and Electronics (ELEC), with at least 24 credits from each of them, and 
grades of D or better in course units aggregating to at least further 18 
credits, considered under (i) above, 
(iii) obtain a GPA of 200 or greater,  
(iv) complete the relevant requirements within a period of five 
consecutive academic years. 
 
 
Handbook-2024/2025, Faculty of Science, University of Kelaniya 
20 
2.7.2 Award of Classes 
2.7.2.1 First Class  
A student who is eligible for the BSc (PE) Degree may be awarded First Class 
provided he/she 
(i) obtains grades of C or better in course units aggregating to at least 90 
credits, considered under 2.7.1 (ii), 
(ii) obtains grades of A or better in course units aggregating to at least 
half the number of total credits for the course units considered under 
2.7.1 (ii), 
(iii) obtains a GPA of 370 or greater,  
(iv) completes the relevant requirements within three consecutive 
academic years. 
 
2.7.2.2 Second Class (Upper Division)  
A student who is eligible for the BSc (PE) Degree may be awarded Second Class 
(Upper Division) provided he/she 
(i) obtains grades of C or better in course units aggregating to at least 80 
credits and grades of D or better in the remaining course units, 
considered under 2.7.1 (ii), 
(ii) obtains grades of B or better in course units aggregating to at least 
half the number of total credits for the course units considered under 
2.7.1 (ii), 
(iii) obtains a GPA of 330 or greater,  
(iv) completes the relevant requirements within three consecutive 
academic years. 
 
2.7.2.3 Second Class (Lower Division)  
A student who is eligible for the BSc (PE) Degree may be awarded Second Class 
(Lower Division) provided he/she 
(i) obtains grades of C or better in course units aggregating to at least 80 
credits and grades of D or better in the remaining course units, 
considered under 2.7.1 (ii), 
(ii) obtains grades of B or better in course units aggregating to at least 
half the number of total credits for the course units considered under 
2.7.1 (ii), 
(iii) obtains a GPA of 300 or greater,  
(iv) completes the relevant requirements within three consecutive 
academic years. 
 
2.8 Bachelor of Science Honours Degree (SLQF 6) 
2.8.1 Eligibility for the Award of the Bachelor of Science Honours Degree 
 To be eligible for the BSc Hons Degree, a student must  
(i) accumulate grades of D or better, 
a. in course units aggregating to at least 30 credits, including either at 
least 10 credits in the subject of specialization and the stream 
compulsory course units where applicable, or at least 10 credits each 
in the subjects of specialization and the stream compulsory course 
Handbook-2024/2025, Faculty of Science, University of Kelaniya 
21 
units where applicable, as the case may be, in each Year of Study, 
totalling to at least 60 credits, in the Years of Study 1 and 2, and 
 
b. aggregating to at least 66 credits in the Years of Study 3 and 4 course 
units including at least 48 credits in the Level 4 course units in the 
subject/subjects of specialization, totalling to at least 126 credits, 
provided that he/she accumulates credits in the compulsory course 
units as stipulated by the relevant Department/Departments of study, 
(ii) obtain grades of C or better in course units aggregating to at least 100 
credits, of which at least 40 credits should be in the Level 4 course 
units, and grades of D or better in course units aggregating to at least 
further 26 credits, with the proviso that he/she should not obtain 
grades of E in any of the course units in the subject/subjects of 
specialization, considered under (i) above, 
(iii) obtain a GPA of 200 or greater,  
(iv) complete the relevant requirements within a period of six consecutive 
academic years. 
 
2.8.2 Award of Classes 
2.8.2.1 First Class  
A student who is eligible for the BSc Hons Degree may be awarded First Class 
if he/she 
(i) obtains grades of C or better in course units, including all the course 
units in the subject/subjects of specialization, aggregating to at least 
126 credits, considered under 2.8.1 (ii), 
(ii) obtains a GPA of 3.70 or greater, 
(iii) obtains grades of A or better in the Level 4 course units in the 
subject/subjects of specialization, aggregating to at least half the 
number of credits accumulated in such course units,  
(iv) obtains grades of A or better in the Level 3 and 4 course units where 
applicable, in the subject/subjects of specialization, aggregating to at 
least half the number of credits accumulated in such course units.  
(v) completes the relevant requirements within four consecutive 
academic years. 
 
Note:   A student who obtains grades of D/D+/C- aggregating to not more than 6 
credits in the Year of Study 4 course units but fulfils all the other requirements 
stipulated under 2.8.2.1 may be considered by the Board of Examiners for the 
award of Second Class (Upper Division). 
 
2.8.2.2 Second Class (Upper Division)  
A student who is eligible for the BSc Hons Degree may be awarded Second 
Class (Upper Division) if he/she 
(i) obtains grades of C or better in course units, including all the course 
units in the subject/subjects of specialization, aggregating to at least 
116 credits, considered under 2.8.1 (ii), 
(ii) obtains a GPA of 330 or greater, 
Handbook-2024/2025, Faculty of Science, University of Kelaniya 
22 
(iii) obtains grades of B or better in the Level 4 course units in the 
subject/subjects of specialization, aggregating to at least half the 
number of credits accumulated in such course units,  
(iv) obtains grades of B or better in the Level 3 and 4 course units where 
applicable, in the subject/subjects of specialization, aggregating to at 
least half the number of credits accumulated in such course units,  
(v) completes the relevant requirements within four consecutive 
academic years. 
 
Note:  A student who obtains grades of D/D+/C- aggregating to not more than 6 
credits in the Year of Study 4 course units but fulfils all the other requirements 
stipulated under 2.8.2.2 may be considered by the Board of Examiners for the 
award of Second Class (Lower Division). 
 
2.8.2.3 Second Class (Lower Division)  
A student who is eligible for the BSc Hons Degree may be awarded Second 
Class (Lower Division) provided he/she 
(i) obtains grades of C or better in course units, including all the course 
units in the subject/subjects of specialization, aggregating to at least 
116 credits, considered under 2.8.1 (ii), 
(ii) obtains a GPA of 300 or greater,  
(iii) obtains grades of B or better in the Level 4 course units in the 
subject/subjects of specialization, aggregating to at least half the 
number of credits accumulated in such course units,  
(iv) obtains grades of B or better in the Level 3 and 4 course units where 
applicable, in the subject/subjects of specialization, aggregating to at 
least half the number of credits accumulated in such course units,  
(v) completes the relevant requirements within four consecutive 
academic years. 
 
2.8.3 Option of reverting to the BSc Degree 
A student reading for a BSc Hons Degree may request the award of the BSc 
Degree foregoing the BSc Hons Degree upon satisfying the requirements for 
the award of the BSc Degree. This request should be made in the course of 
the 4th academic year or within 14 days from the date of the final release of 
the results of the Year of Study 4 course units by the Faculty. 
 
The BSc Degree results shall be determined solely on the basis of course units 
followed in the first three academic years. 
 
2.9 Bachelor of Science Honours in Environmental Conservation & 
Management Degree (ENCM) 
2.9.1 Eligibility for the Award of the Bachelor of Science Honours in 
Environmental Conservation & Management Degree  
 To be eligible for the BSc Hons (ENCM) Degree, a student must  
(i) accumulate grades of D or better, 
Handbook-2024/2025, Faculty of Science, University of Kelaniya 
23 
a. in course units aggregating to at least 30 credits, including all 
compulsory course units in each academic year, totalling to at least 
60 credits in the Years of Study 1 and 2, and 
b. aggregating to at least 66 credits in the year of study 3 and the year 
of study 4 academic years, including all the compulsory course units, 
and at least 48 credits in the Level 4 course units, to totalling at least 
126 credits, 
(ii) obtain grades of C or better in course units aggregating to at least 100 
credits, of which at least 40 credits should be in the Level 4 course 
units including the final year research project, and grades of D or 
better in course units aggregating to at least further 26 credits, with 
the proviso that he/she should not obtain grades of D/D+/C- in course 
units aggregating to more than 6 credits in each of the three subject 
areas (Year of Study 1, 2, & 3 ENCM course units; PLBL, MIBI and ZOOL 
course units; CHEM course units), or grades of E in any of the course 
units, considered under (i) above, 
(iii) obtain a GPA of 200 or greater,  
(iv) complete the relevant requirements within a period of six consecutive 
academic years. 
 
2.9.2 Award of Classes 
2.9.2.1 First Class  
A student who is eligible for the BSc Hons (ENCM) Degree may be awarded 
First Class if he/she 
(i) obtains grades of C or better in course units, including all the 
compulsory course units in the subject of specialization, aggregating 
to at least 126 credits, considered under 2.9.1 (ii), 
(ii) obtains a GPA of 370 or greater, 
(iii) obtains grades of A or better in the Level 4 course units, aggregating 
to at least half the number of credits accumulated in such course 
units,  
(iv) obtains grades of A or better in the Level 3 and 4 course units, 
aggregating to at least half the number of credits accumulated in such 
course units,  
(v) completes the relevant requirements within four consecutive 
academic years. 
 
Note:  A student who obtains grades of D/D+/C- aggregating to not more than 6 
credits in the Year of Study 4 course units but fulfils all the other requirements 
stipulated under 2.9.2.1 may be considered by the Board of Examiners for the 
award of Second Class (Upper Division). 
 
2.9.2.2 Second Class (Upper Division)  
A student who is eligible for the BSc Hons (ENCM) Degree may be awarded 
Second Class (Upper Division) if he/she 
(i) obtains grades of C or better in course units, including the compulsory 
course units, aggregating to at least 116 credits, considered under 
2.9.1 (ii), 
Handbook-2024/2025, Faculty of Science, University of Kelaniya 
24 
(ii) obtains a GPA of 330 or greater, 
(iii) obtains grades of B or better in the Level 4 course units, aggregating 
to at least half the number of credits accumulated in such course 
units,  
(iv) obtains grades of B or better in the Level 3 and 4 course units, 
aggregating to at least half the number of credits accumulated in such 
course units,  
(v) completes the relevant requirements within four consecutive 
academic years. 
 
Note:  A student who obtains grades of D/D+/C- aggregating to not more than 6 
credits in the Year of Study 4 course units but fulfils all the other requirements 
stipulated under 2.9.2.2 may be considered by the Board of Examiners for the 
award of Second Class (Lower Division). 
 
2.9.2.3 Second Class (Lower Division)  
 A student who is eligible for the BSc Hons (ENCM) Degree may be awarded 
Second Class (Lower Division) provided he/she 
(i) obtains grades of C or better in course units, including the compulsory 
course units, aggregating to at least 116 credits, considered under 
2.9.1 (ii), 
(ii) obtains a GPA of 300 or greater,  
(iii) obtains grades of B or better in the Level 4 course units, aggregating 
to at least half the number of credits accumulated in such course 
units,  
(iv) obtains grades of B or better in the Level 3 and 4 course units, 
aggregating to at least half the number of credits accumulated in such 
course units,  
(v)completes the relevant requirements within four consecutive academic 
years. 
 
2.9.3 Option of reverting to the Bachelor of Science in Environmental 
Conservation & Management Degree (ENCM) 
 
A student reading for a BSc Hons (ENCM) Degree may request the award of the BSc 
ENCM Degree foregoing the BSc Hons (ENCM) Degree upon satisfying the 
requirements for the award of the BSc Degree. This request should be made in the 
course of the 4th academic year or within 14 days from the date of the final release of 
the results of the Year of Study 4 course units by the Faculty. 
 
The results of the BSc ENCM Degree shall be determined solely on the basis of course 
units followed in the first three academic years. 
 
 
Handbook-2024/2025, Faculty of Science, University of Kelaniya 
25 
2.10 Bachelor of Science Honours in Management and Information Technology 
Degree (MIT)/Bachelor of Science Honours in Information Technology 
Degree (IT)  
 
2.10.1 (a) Eligibility for the award of the Bachelor of Science Honours in 
Management and Information Technology Degree 
To be eligible for the BSc Hons (MIT) Degree, a student must 
(i) accumulate grades of D or better, in course units including all compulsory 
course units, aggregating to at least 72 credits from year of study 1 and 
year of study 2, and aggregating to at least 132 credits from all four years, 
of which at least 30 credits must be from each of year of study 3 and year 
of study 4 academic year separately and 
(ii) obtains grades of C or better in course units totalling to at least 105 credits 
with at least D grades for the remaining course units, and 
(iii) obtain grades of C or better for either MGTE 43216 or INTE 43216 course 
unit and for INTE 31356, GNCT 32216, GNCT 13212, and GNCT 23212 
course units, and 
(iv) obtain a minimum GPA of 200, and 
(v) complete the relevant requirements within a period of six consecutive 
academic years. 
 
  (b) Eligibility for the award of the Bachelor of Science Honours in 
Information Technology Degree 
     To be eligible for the BSc Hons (IT) Degree, a student must 
(i) accumulate grades of D or better, in course units including all compulsory 
course units, aggregating to at least 72 credits from year of study 1 and 
year of study 2, and aggregating to at least 132 credits from all four years, 
of which at least 30 credits must be from each of year of study 3 and year 
of study 4 academic year separately and  
(ii) obtains grades of C or better in course units totalling to at least 105 credits 
with at least D grades for the remaining course units, and 
(iii) obtain grades of C or better for either MGTE 43216 or INTE 43216 course 
unit and for INTE 31356, GNCT 32216, GNCT 13212, and GNCT 23212  
course units, and 
(iv) obtain a minimum GPA of 200, and 
(v) complete the relevant requirements within a period of six consecutive 
academic years 
 
2.10.2 Award of Classes 
2.10.2.1 First Class 
A student who is eligible for the BSc Hons (MIT) Degree/BSc Hons (IT) Degree 
may be awarded First Class if he/she 
(i) obtains grades of C or better in all the course units considered for the 
calculation of the GPA, and 
(ii) obtains grades of A or better aggregating to at least half the number 
of credits accumulated and considered for the calculation of the GPA, 
and 
(iii) obtains a minimum GPA of 370  
Handbook-2024/2025, Faculty of Science, University of Kelaniya 
26 
(iv) completes the relevant requirements within four consecutive 
academic years. 
 
Note:  A student who obtains grades of D, D+, and C- for a maximum of 4 credits in 
compulsory course units and fulfils all the other requirements stipulated 
under 2.10.2.1 may be considered by the Board of Examiners for the award of 
Second Class (Upper Division). 
 
2.10.2.2 Second Class (Upper Division)  
A student who is eligible for the BSc Hons (MIT) Degree/BSc Hons (IT) Degree 
may be awarded Second Class (Upper Division) if he/she 
(i) obtains grades of C or better in course units, including the compulsory 
course units, aggregating to at least 117 credits, and grades of D or 
better in the remaining course units considered for GPA calculation, 
and 
(ii) obtains grades of B or better aggregating to at least half the number 
of credits accumulated and considered for the calculation of the GPA, 
and 
(iii) obtains a minimum GPA of 330  
(iv) completes the relevant requirements within four consecutive 
academic years 
 
 Note:  A student who obtains minimum grades of D, D+, and C- for a maximum of 4 
credits in compulsory course units and fulfils all the other requirements 
stipulated under 2.10.2.2 may be considered by the Board of Examiners for 
the award of Second Class (Lower Division). 
 
2.10.2.3 Second Class (Lower Division)  
A student who is eligible for the BSc Hons (MIT) Degree/BSc Hons (IT) Degree 
may be awarded Second Class (Lower Division) provided he/she 
(i) obtains grades of C or better in course units, including all compulsory 
course units, aggregating to at least 117 credits, and grades of D or 
better in the remaining course units considered for GPA calculation, 
and 
(ii) obtains grades of B or better in aggregating to at least half the number 
of credits in the compulsory course modules, and 
(iii) obtains grades of B or better aggregating to at least half the number 
of credits accumulated and considered for the calculation of the GPA, 
and 
(iv) obtains minimum GPA of 300  
(v) completes the relevant requirements within four consecutive 
academic years. 
 
 
 
 
Handbook-2024/2025, Faculty of Science, University of Kelaniya 
27 
2.11 Exit Point at the end of Year of Study 3 for the Bachelor of Science in 
Management and Information Technology Degree (MIT)/Bachelor of 
Science in Information Technology Degree (IT) 
 
2.11.1 (a) Eligibility for the award of the Bachelor of Science in Management and 
Information Technology Degree 
  To be eligible for the BSc (MIT) Degree/a student must 
(i) accumulate grades of D or better, in course units including all 
compulsory course units, aggregating to at least 72 credits from year 
of study 1 and year of study 2, and aggregating to at least 102 credits 
from all three years, of which at least 30 credits must be from year of 
study 3 and 
(ii) obtains grades of C or better in course units totalling to at least 85 
credits with at least D grades for the remaining course units, and 
(iii) obtains grades of C or better in compulsory course units totalling to at 
least 70 credits with at least D grades for the remaining compulsory 
course units, and 
(iv) obtains grades of C or better for INTE 31356, GNCT 32216, GNCT 
13212, and GNCT 23212 course units, and 
(v) obtain a minimum GPA of 200,  
(vi) complete the relevant requirements within a period of five 
consecutive academic years. 
 
(b) Eligibility for the award of the Bachelor of Science in Information 
Technology Degree 
  To be eligible for the BSc (IT) Degree, a student must 
(i) accumulate grades of D or better, in course units including all 
compulsory course units, aggregating to at least 72 credits from year 
of study 1 and year of study 2, and aggregating to at least 102 credits 
from all three years, of which at least 30 credits must be from year of 
study 3 and 
(ii) obtains grades of C or better in course units totalling to at least 85 
credits with at least D grades for the remaining course units, and 
(iii) obtains grades of C or better in compulsory course units totalling to at 
least 68 credits with at least D grades for the remaining compulsory 
course units, and 
(iv) obtains grades of C or better for INTE 31356, GNCT 32216, GNCT 
13212, and GNCT 23212 course units, and 
(v) obtain a minimum GPA of 200, 
(vi) complete the relevant requirements within a period of five 
consecutive academic years. 
 
2.11.2 Award of Classes 
2.11.2.1 First Class 
A student who is eligible for the BSc (MIT) Degree/BSc (IT) Degree may be 
awarded First Class if he/she 
(i) obtains grades of C or better in all the course units considered for the 
calculation of the GPA, and 
Handbook-2024/2025, Faculty of Science, University of Kelaniya 
28 
(ii) obtains grades of A or better aggregating to at least half the number 
of credits accumulated and considered for the calculation of the GPA, 
and 
(iii) obtains a minimum GPA of 370  
(iv) completes the relevant requirements within three consecutive 
academic years. 
 
Note:  A student who obtains grades of D, D+, and C- for a maximum of 4 credits in 
compulsory course units, and fulfils all the other requirements stipulated 
under 2.11.2.1, may be considered by the Board of Examiners for the award 
of Second Class (Upper Division). 
 
2.11.2.2 Second Class (Upper Division) 
 A student who is eligible for the BSc (MIT) Degree/BSc (IT) Degree may be 
awarded Second Class (Upper Division) if he/she 
(i) obtains grades of C or better in course units, including the compulsory 
course units, aggregating to at least 99 credits, and grades of D or 
better in the remaining course units considered for GPA calculation, 
and 
(ii) obtains grades of B or better aggregating to at least half the number 
of credits accumulated and considered for the calculation of the GPA, 
and 
(iii) obtains a minimum GPA of 330  
(iv) completes the relevant requirements within three consecutive 
academic years 
 
Note: A student who obtains minimum grades of D, D+, and C- for a maximum of 4 
credits in compulsory course units and fulfils all the other requirements 
stipulated under 2.11.2.2 may be considered by the Board of Examiners for 
the award of Second Class (Lower Division). 
 
2.11.2.3 Second Class (Lower Division) 
A student who is eligible for the BSc (MIT) Degree/BSc (IT) Degree may be 
awarded Second Class (Lower Division) provided he/she 
(i) obtains grades of C or better in course units, including all compulsory 
course units, aggregating to at least 99 credits, and grades of D or 
better in the remaining course units considered for GPA calculation, 
and 
(ii) obtains grades of B or better aggregating to at least half the number 
of credits accumulated and considered for the calculation of the GPA, 
and 
(iii) obtains minimum GPA of 300  
(iv) completes the relevant requirements within three consecutive 
academic years. 
 
 
Handbook-2024/2025, Faculty of Science, University of Kelaniya 
29 
2.11.3 Fall back option for the BSc (MIT) Degree/ BSc (IT) Degree 
Eligibility for the award of the Higher Diploma in Management and 
Information Technology / Higher Diploma in Information Technology  
To be eligible for the Higher Diploma in MIT/ Higher Diploma in IT, a student 
must 
(i) accumulate grades of D or better in course units including all 
compulsory course units, aggregating to at least 72 credits from year 
of study 1 and year of study 2, and 
(ii) obtains grades of C or better in course units totalling to at least 60 
credits with at least D grades for the remaining course units, and 
(iii) obtains grades of C or better for GNCT 13212 and GNCT 23212 course 
units, and 
(iv) obtain a minimum GPA of 2.00, and 
(v) complete the relevant requirements within a period of six consecutive 
academic years. 
 
2.12 Bachelor of Science Honours in Software Engineering Degree (SENG) 
2.12.1 Eligibility for the award of the Bachelor of Science Honours in Software 
Engineering Degree (SENG) 
 To be eligible for the BSc Hons (SENG) Degree, a student must 
(i) accumulate grades of D or better, in course units including all 
compulsory course units, totalling to a minimum of 120 credits, of 
which at least 30 credits must be from each Year of Study separately, 
with 
(ii) a minimum aggregate of at least 9 credits from one selected domain 
(iii) obtain grades of C or better in course units totalling to at least 104 
credits with at least D grades for the remaining course units, and 
(iv) obtain grades of C or better in compulsory course units and course 
units from the one selected domain totalling to at least 90 credits with 
at least D grades for the remaining compulsory course units and the 
selected domain course units, and 
(v) obtain grades of C or better for SENG 31242, SENG 34213, SENG 
32216, SENG 43216 course units and 
(vi) pass GNCT 13212 and GNCT 23212 course units, and 
(vii) obtain a minimum GPA of 200,  
(viii) complete the relevant requirements within a period of six consecutive 
academic years. 
 
2.12.2 Award of Classes  
2.12.2.1 First Class  
A student who is eligible for the BSc Hons (SENG) Degree may be awarded 
First Class if he/she 
(i) obtains grades of C or better in all the course units considered for the 
calculation of the GPA, and 
(ii) obtains grades of A or better aggregating to at least half the number 
of credits in the compulsory course units, and 
Handbook-2024/2025, Faculty of Science, University of Kelaniya 
30 
(iii) obtains grades of A or better aggregating to at least half the number 
of credits accumulated and considered for the calculation of the GPA, 
and 
(iv) obtains a minimum GPA of 370,  
(v) completes the relevant requirements within four consecutive 
academic years. 
 
Note: A student who obtains grades of D+ for a maximum of 4 credits and fulfils all 
the other requirements stipulated under 2.12.2.1 may be considered by the 
Board of Examiners for the award of Second Class (Upper Division). 
 
2.12.2.2 Second Class (Upper Division)  
A student who is eligible for the BSc Hons (SENG) Degree may be awarded 
Second Class (Upper Division) if he/she 
(i) obtains grades of C or better in course units including all compulsory 
course units aggregating to at least 110 credits and grades of D or 
better in the remaining course units considered for GPA calculation, 
and 
(ii) obtains grades of B or better aggregating to at least half the number 
of credits in the compulsory course modules, and 
(iii) obtains grades of B or better aggregating to at least half the number 
of credits accumulated and considered for the calculation of the GPA, 
and 
(iv) obtains a minimum GPA of 330,  
(v) completes the relevant requirements within four consecutive 
academic years. 
 
Note: A student who obtains minimum grades of D for a maximum of 4 credits in 
compulsory course units and fulfils all the other requirements stipulated 
under 2.12.2.2 may be considered by the Board of Examiners for the award of 
Second Class (Lower Division). 
 
2.12.2.3 Second Class (Lower Division)  
A student who is eligible for the BSc Hons (SENG) Degree may be awarded 
Second Class (Lower Division) provided he/she 
(i) obtains grades of C or better in course units including all compulsory 
course units aggregating to at least 110 credits and grades of D or 
better in the remaining course units considered for GPA calculation, 
and 
(ii) obtains grades of B or better aggregating to at least half the number 
of credits in the compulsory course modules, and 
(iii) obtains grades of B or better aggregating to at least half the number 
of credits accumulated and considered for the calculation of the GPA, 
and 
(iv) obtains a minimum GPA of 300,  
(v) completes the relevant requirements within four consecutive 
academic years. 
Handbook-2024/2025, Faculty of Science, University of Kelaniya 
31 
 
2.13 Bachelor of Science Honours in Electronics and Computer Science (BECS)   
2.13.1  Eligibility  for  the  Award  of the  Bachelor  of Science  Honours  in 
Electronics  and  Computer  Science  (BECS)  
 For the award of a Bachelor of Science Honours in Electronics and Computer 
Science Degree, a student must  
(i) accumulate grades of C or better in course units aggregating to at least 
104 credits, and grades of D or better in course units aggregating to at 
least further 16 credits of SLQLs 3, 4, 5 and 6, of which at least 30 
credits must be from each SLQF separately,  
(ii) obtain a GPA of 200 or greater, and 
(iii) complete the relevant requirements within a period of six consecutive 
academic years. 
 
2.13.2 Award of Classes 
2.13.2.1   First  Class   
 A student who is eligible for the BSc Hons (BECS) Degree may be awarded First 
Class if he/ she 
(i) accumulate grades of C or better in course units aggregating to at least 
120 credits of SLQLs 3, 4, 5 and 6, of which at least 30 credits must be 
from each SLQL separately, 
(ii) obtain a GPA of 370 or greater, 
(iii) obtain grades of A or better in course units aggregating to at least 50% 
of total credits for the course units considered under (i) above, and 
(iv) complete the relevant requirements within a period of four 
consecutive academic years at SLQLs 3, 4, 5 and 6. 
 
2.13.2.2 Second Class (Upper Division)  
 A student who is eligible for the BSc Hons (BECS) Degree may be awarded 
Second Class (Upper Division) if he/ she 
(i) accumulate grades of C or better in course units aggregating to at least 
112 credits, and grades of D or better in course units aggregating to at 
least a further 8 credits of SLQLs 3, 4, 5 and 6, of which at least 30 
credits must be from each SLQL separately, 
(ii) obtain a GPA of 330 or greater, 
(iii) obtain grades of B or better in course units aggregating to at least 50% 
of total credits for the course units considered under (i) above, and 
(iv) complete the relevant requirements within a period of four 
consecutive academic years of SLQLs 3, 4, 5 and 6. 
 
2.13.2.3 Second Class (Lower Division)  
 A student who is eligible for the BSc Hons (BECS) Degree may be awarded 
Second Class (Lower Division) provided he/ she 
(i) accumulate grades of C or better in course units aggregating to at least 
112 credits, and grades of D or better in course units aggregating to at 
least a further 8 credits of SLQLs 3, 4, 5 and 6, of which at least 30 
credits must be from each SLQL separately, 
(ii) obtain a GPA of 300 or greater, 
Handbook-2024/2025, Faculty of Science, University of Kelaniya 
32 
(iii) obtain grades of B or better in course units aggregating to at least 50% 
of total credits for the course units considered under (i) above, and 
(iv) complete the relevant requirements within a period of four 
consecutive academic years of SLQLs 3, 4, 5 and 6 
 
2.13.3 Option of reverting to the Bachelor of Science in Electronics and Computer 
Science (BECS) 
 
A student reading for a Bachelor of Science Honours in Electronics and Computer 
Science may request the award of the Bachelor of Science in Electronics and Computer 
Science, upon satisfying the requirements for the award of the Bachelor of Science in 
Electronics and Computer Science Degree. This request should be made in the course 
of the 4th academic year or within 14 days from the date of final release of the results 
of the level 4 course units by the faculty. The results of the Bachelor of Science in 
Electronics and Computer Science Degree shall be determined solely on the basis of 
course units followed in the first three academic years. 
 
2.14 Bachelor of Science Honours in Applied Chemistry Degree (APCH) 
2.14.1   Eligibility  for  the  Award  of the  Bachelor  of Science  Honours  in 
Applied  Chemistry  Degree  (APCH)  
To be eligible for the Bachelor of Science Honours in Applied Chemistry, a 
student must 
(i) accumulate grades of D or better in course units, aggregating to at 
least 60 credits during the year of study 1 and 2, and aggregating to at 
least 120 credits during the entire four academic year period, 
including the stream compulsory units where applicable, of which at 
least 30 credits must be from each year of study 
(ii) obtain grades of C or better in course units totalling to at least 96 
credits with at least D grades for the remaining course units, and  
(iii) obtain grades of C or better in compulsory course units totalling to at 
least 84 credits with at least D grades for the remaining compulsory 
course units,  
(iv) obtain a minimum GPA of 2.00, and  
(v) complete the relevant requirements within a period of six consecutive 
academic years  
 
2.14.2 Award of Classes  
2.14.2.1  First  Class   
A student who is eligible for the BSc Hons (APCH) Degree may be awarded 
a First Class provided he/ she,  
(i) obtains grades of C or better in course units aggregating to at least 
120 credits, considered under 2.14.1(i),  
(ii) obtains grades of A or better in level 4 course units aggregating to at 
least half the number of credits accumulated in such course units.  
(iii) obtains a GPA of 3.70 or greater, and 
(iv) completes the relevant requirements within four consecutive 
academic years. 
 
Handbook-2024/2025, Faculty of Science, University of Kelaniya 
33 
Note:   A student who obtains grades of D/D+/C- aggregating to not more than 6 
credits in level 3 and level 4 course units but fulfils all the other requirements 
stipulated under 2.14.2.1 may be considered by the Board of Examiners for 
the award of Second Class (Upper Division) Honours. 
 
2.14.2.2 Second Class (Upper Division)  
A student who is eligible for the BSc Hons (APCH) Degree may be awarded 
a Second Class (Upper Division) provided he/ she,  
(i) obtains grades of C or better in course units aggregating to at least 110 
credits and grades of D or better in the remaining course units, 
considered under 2.14.1(i),  
(ii) obtains grades of B or better in level 4 course units aggregating to at 
least half the number of credits accumulated in such course units. 
(iii) obtains a GPA of 3.30 or greater, and  
(iv) completes the relevant requirements within four consecutive 
academic years. 
 
Note: A student who obtains grades of D/D+/C- aggregating to not more than 6 
credits in level 3 and level 4 course units but fulfils all the other 
requirements stipulated under 2.14.2.2 may be considered by the Board of 
Examiners for the award of Second Class (Lower Division) Honours. 
 
2.14.2.3 Second Class (Lower Division)  
A student who is eligible for the BSc Hons (APCH) Degree may be awarded 
a Second Class (Lower Division) provided he/ she, 
(i) obtains grades of C or better in course units aggregating to at least 
110 credits and grades of at least D in the remaining course units, 
considered under 2.14.1(i), 
(ii) obtains grades of B or better in level 4 course units aggregating to at 
least half the number of credits accumulated in such course units. 
(iii) obtains a GPA of 3.00 or greater, and  
(iv) completes the relevant requirements within four consecutive 
academic years.  
 
2.15 Bachelor of Science Honours in Sports Science Degree (BSSS) 
2.1 5.1 Eligibility  for  the  Award  of the  Bachelor  of Science  Honours  in Sports 
Science Degree  (BSSS)  
     For the award of a BSc Hons (BSSS) Degree, a student must  
(i) accumulate grades of C or better in course units aggregating to at least 
104 credits, and grades of D or better in course units aggregating to at 
least further 16 credits of SLQF 3, 4, 5 and 6, of which at least 30 
credits must be from each SLQF separately,  
(ii) obtain a GPA of 200 or greater, and 
(iii) complete the relevant requirements within a period of six consecutive 
academic years. 
 
 
Handbook-2024/2025, Faculty of Science, University of Kelaniya 
34 
12.15.2 Award of Classes 
12.15.2.1 First Class 
   For the award of a BSc Hons (BSSS) Degree with First Class, a student must  
(i) accumulate grades of C or better in course units aggregating to at least 
120 credits of SLQF 3, 4, 5 and 6, of which at least 30 credits must be 
from each SLQF separately, 
(ii) obtain a GPA of 370 or greater, 
(iii) obtain grades of A or better in course units aggregating to at least 50% 
from each SLQF level separately for the course units considered under 
(i) above, and 
(iv) complete the relevant requirements within a period of four 
consecutive academic years at SLQF 3, 4, 5 and 6. 
 
12.15.2.2 Second Class (Upper Division) 
  For the award of a BSc Hons (BSSS) Degree with Second Class (Upper 
Division), a student must  
(i) accumulate grades of C or better in course units aggregating to at least 
112 credits, and grades of D or better in course units aggregating to at 
least a further 8 credits of SLQF 3, 4, 5 and 6, of which at least 30 
credits must be from each SLQF separately, 
(ii) obtain a GPA of 330 or greater, 
(iii) obtain grades of B or better in course units aggregating to at least 50% 
from each SLQF level separately for the course units considered under 
(i) above, and 
(iv) complete the relevant requirements within a period of four 
consecutive academic years of SLQF 3, 4, 5 and 6. 
 
Note: A student who obtains minimum grades of D for a maximum of 4 credits in 
compulsory course units and fulfils all the other requirements stipulated 
under 2.15.2.2 may be considered by the Board of Examiners for the award of 
Second Class (Lower Division). 
 
12.15.2.3 Second Class (Lower Division) 
For the award of a BSc Hons (BSSS) Degree with Second Class (Lower 
Division), a student must  
(i) accumulate grades of C or better in course units aggregating to at least 
112 credits, and grades of D or better in course units aggregating to at 
least further 8 credits of SLQF 3, 4, 5 and 6, of which at least 30 credits 
must be from each SLQF separately. 
(ii) obtain a GPA of 300 or greater, 
(iii) obtain grades of B or better in course units aggregating to at least 50% 
from each SLQF level separately for the course units considered under 
(i) above, and 
(iv) complete the relevant requirements within a period of four 
consecutive academic years at SLQF 3, 4, 5 and 6. 
 
 
 
Handbook-2024/2025, Faculty of Science, University of Kelaniya 
35 
 
2.16 Award of the Degree 
The student has to request for the degree awarding by using the prescribe 
form to awarding the Degree. A student who intends to enhance the grade(s) 
obtained at the examination(s) of a course unit(s) should request the 
Dean/Science in writing to refrain from processing her/his results within a 
week of completion of releasing the results of all the course unit 
examinations in the relevant semester.   
 
On successful completion of the BSc Degree, BSc in Environmental 
Conservation and Management Degree, BSc in Information Technology, BSc 
in Management and Information Technology, BSc in Physics and Electronics 
Degree, BSc Hons in Applied Chemistry, BSc Hons in Biochemistry, BSc Hons 
in Chemistry, BSc Hons in Computer Science, BSc Hons in Computer Studies, 
BSc Hons in Electronics, BSc Hons in Electronics and Computer Science, BSc 
Hons in Environmental Conservation and Management, BSc Hons in 
Information Technology, BSc Hons in Management and Information 
Technology, BSc Hons in Mathematical Physics, BSc Hons in Mathematics, BSc 
Hons in Microbiology, BSc Hons in Molecular Biology and Plant Biotechnology, 
BSc Hons in Physics, BSc Hons in Plant Biology, BSc Hons in Software 
Engineering, BSc Hons in Sports Science, BSc Hons in Statistics, and BSc Hons 
in Zoology, and after the confirmation of results by the University Senate, a 
student is entitled to have an official transcript giving the grades in the 
respective course units. 
  
Handbook-2024/2025, Faculty of Science, University of Kelaniya 
36 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3. COURSE STRUCTURE  
BSc DEGREE  
Handbook-2024/2025, Faculty of Science, University of Kelaniya 
37 
3.1 Course Structure for BSc Degree 
  Biological Sciences 
 
3.1.1 BSc Degree Programme – Year of Study 1 
  Biological Sciences 
  Available combinations to select course units 
 
Course code Course unit combination (BSY1) 
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 
ACLT 110131,2 C C C C C C C C 
ACLT 120221 O O O O O O O O 
ACLT 210321 O O O O O O O O 
BIOC 12612      C C C 
BIOC 12622       C C C 
BIOC 12632      C C C 
BIOL 11512 C C C C C C C C 
BIOL 11522 C C C C C C C C 
BIOL 11532 C C C C C C C C 
BIOL 11552 C C C C C C C C 
CHEM 116011 C C C C C C C C 
CHEM 11612 C C C C C C C C 
CHEM 11622 C C C C C C C C 
CHEM 11631 C C C C C C C C 
CHEM 12642 C C C C C C C C 
CHEM 12652 C C C C C C C C 
CHEM 12661 C C C C C C C C 
CMSK 140121,3 A A A A A A A A 
CMSK 140221,3 A A A A A A A A 
CMSK 140321,3 A A A A A A A A 
CMSK 140421,3 A A A A A A A A 
COST 11012 O C C O O O O O 
COST 11023 O C C O O O O O 
COST 12032  C C      
COST 12043  C C      
IMGT 14512 A A A A A A A A 
IMGT 21511 A A A A A A A A 
MGMT 110221,4 C C C C C C C C 
MIBI 12514     C C C   
MIBI 12522    C C C   
PLBL 12513 C C  C   C  
PLBL 12523 C C  C   C  
PMAT 11203 A A A A A A A A 
PMAT 12203 A A A A A A A A 
STAT 14552 A A A A A A A A 
ZOOL 12703 C  C  C   C 
ZOOL 12711 C  C  C   C 
ZOOL 12722 C  C  C   C 
No of Credits from 
Compulsory Units 30 34 34 30 30 30 30 30 
  
 1The credits that are not counted for GPA 
2ACLT 11013 should be successfully completed (minimum C pass) within the first two years of the study 
3At least one of the CMSK course units should be completed within the first two years of the study 
4Should be completed within the three-year period of the Degree Programme 
 
Students may take auxiliary course units up to a maximum of 6 credits during the Years of Study 1, 2 and 3  
with not more than 2 credits per semester from other faculties. 
Handbook-2024/2025, Faculty of Science, University of Kelaniya 
38 
3.1.2 BSc Degree Programme – Year of Study 2 
 Biological Sciences 
 Available combinations to select course units 
 
Course code Course unit combination (BSY2) 
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 
ACLT 120221 O O O O O O O O 
ACLT 210321 O O O O O O O O 
BIOC 21612      C C C 
BIOC 21622      C C C 
BIOC 21631      C C C 
BIOC 22642      C C C 
BIOC 22652      C C C 
BIOC 22661      C C C 
CHEM 21672 C C C C C C C C 
CHEM 21682 C C C C C C C C 
CHEM 21691 C C C C C C C C 
CHEM 22702 C C C C C C C C 
CHEM 22712 C C C C C C C C 
CHEM 22721 C C C C C C C C 
CMSK 140121,2 A A A A A A A A 
CMSK 140221,2 A A A A A A A A 
CMSK 140321,2 A A A A A A A A 
CMSK 140421,2 A A A A A A A A 
COST 21053  C C      
COST 21063  C C      
COST 22073  C C      
COST 22082  C C      
IMGT 14512 A A A A A A A A 
IMGT 21511 A A A A A A A A 
MGMT 110221,3 C C C C C C C C 
MIBI 21514    C C C   
MIBI 21522    C C C   
MIBI 22534    C C C   
MIBI 22542    C C C   
PHYS 22553 O O O O O O O O 
PLBL 21513  C C  C   C  
PLBL 21521 C C  C   C  
PLBL 21532 C C  C   C  
PLBL 22541 C C  C   C  
PLBL 22554 C C  C   C  
PLBL 22561 C C  C   C  
PMAT 11203 A A A A A A A A 
PMAT 12203 A A A A A A A A 
STAT 14552 A A A A A A A A 
ZOOL 21702 C  C  C   C 
ZOOL 21711 C  C  C   C 
ZOOL 21722 C  C  C   C 
ZOOL 22732 C  C  C   C 
ZOOL 22742 C  C  C   C 
ZOOL 22752 C  C  C   C 
No of Credits from 
Compulsory Units 33 33 32 34 33 32 32 31 
  
 1The credits that are not counted for GPA 
2At least one of the CMSK course units should be completed within the first two years of the study 
3Should be completed within the three-year period of the Degree Programme 
 
Students may take auxiliary course units up to a maximum of 6 credits during the Years of Study 1, 2 and 3 
with not more than 2 credits per semester from other faculties. 
Handbook-2024/2025, Faculty of Science, University of Kelaniya 
39 
3.1.3 BSc Degree Programme – Year of Study 3 
 Biological Sciences 
 Available combinations to select course units 
 
Course code Course unit combination (BSY3) 
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 
BIOC 31611      C C C 
BIOC 31622      C C C 
BIOC 31632       C C C 
BIOC 31641      C C C 
BIOC 32652      O O O 
BIOC 32661      O O O 
CHEM 31731 C C C C C C C C 
CHEM 31742 O O O O O O O O 
CHEM 31752 O O O O O O O O 
CHEM 32762 O O O O O O O O 
CHEM 32771 O O O O O O O O 
CHEM 32782 O O O O O O O O 
COST 31093  C C      
COST 31102  O O      
COST 31112  O O      
COST 31122  O O      
COST 32143  C C      
COST 32152  O O      
COST 32162  O O      
COST 32182  O O      
IMGT 14512 O O O O O O O O 
IMGT 21511 O O O O O O O O 
MGMT 110221,2 C C C C C C C C 
MIBI 31514    C C C   
MIBI 31522    C C C   
MIBI 32556    O O O   
MIBI 33534    O O O   
MIBI 33541    O O O   
MIBI 33562    O O O   
PHYS 32582 O O O O O O O O 
PLBL 31514 C C  C   C  
PLBL 31521 C C  C   C  
PLBL 32533 O O  O   O  
PLBL 32542 O O  O   O  
PLBL 32552 O O  O   O  
PMAT 11203 A A A A A A A A 
PMAT 12203 A A A A A A A A 
PRPL 31992 O O O O O O O O 
STAT 14552 A A A A A A A A 
ZOOL 317033 O  O  O   O 
ZOOL 317133 O  O  O   O 
ZOOL 317223 O  O  O   O 
ZOOL 327333 O  O  O   O 
ZOOL 327423 O  O  O   O 
ZOOL 327523 O  O  O   O 
ZOOL 327623 O  O  O   O 
No of Credits from 
Compulsory Units 6 12 7 12 7 13 12 7 
 
1The credits that are not counted for GPA 
     2 Should be completed within the three-year period of the Degree Programme 
3In order to claim Zoology as a subject for the BSc Degree programme, a student should accumulate a minimum of 7 
credits from the Year of Study 3 ZOOL optional course units with at least 3 credits from each semester. 
 
Students may take auxiliary course units up to a maximum of 6 credits during the Years of Study 1, 2, and 3 with not more  
than 2 credits per semester from other faculties. 
 
 
 
Handbook-2024/2025, Faculty of Science, University of Kelaniya 
40 
3.2 Course Structure for BSc Degree 
 Physical Sciences 
 
3.2.1 BSc Degree Programme – Year of Study 1 
  Physical Science 
  Available combination to select course units 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
1The credits that are not counted for GPA 
2ACLT 11013 should be successfully completed (minimum C pass) within the first two years of the study 
3At least one of the CMSK course units should be completed within the first two years of the study 
Course code Course unit combination (PSY1) 
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 
ACLT 110131,2 C C C C C C C C C C 
ACLT 120221 O O O O O O O O O O 
ACLT 210321 O O O O O O O O O O 
AMAT 11223 C   C   C  C  
AMAT 11232 C   C   C  C  
AMAT 12242 C   C   C  C  
AMAT 12253 C   C   C  C  
CHEM 116011      O O   O  
CHEM 11612      C C   C 
CHEM 11622      C C   C 
CHEM 11631      C C   C 
CHEM 12642      C C   C 
CHEM 12652      C C   C 
CHEM 12661      C C   C 
CMSK 140121,3 A A A A A A A A A A 
CMSK 140221,3 A A A A A A A A A A 
CMSK 140321,3 A A A A A A A A A A 
CMSK 140421,3 A A A A A A A A A A 
CMSK 140521,3 A A A A A A A A A A 
COSC 11012  C  C C C     
COSC 11023  C  C C C     
COSC 12033  C  C C C     
COSC 12043  C  C C C     
COST 11012        C  C 
COST 11023        C  C 
COST 12032        C  C 
COST 12043        C  C 
ELEC 11513   C     C   
ELEC 11521   C     C   
ELEC 12534   C     C   
ELEC 12541   C     C   
MAPS 11512 A A A A A A A A A A 
PHYS 11512 C C C     C   
PHYS 11521 C C C     C   
PHYS 11532 C C C     C   
PHYS 12542 C C C     C   
PHYS 12552 C C C     C   
PHYS 12561 C C C     C   
PMAT 11223 C C C C C C C  C C 
PMAT 11232 C C C C C C C  C C 
PMAT 12242 C C C C C C C  C C 
PMAT 12253 C C C C C C C  C C 
STAT 11613     C    C  
STAT 11621     C    C  
STAT 11632     C    C  
STAT 12643     C    C  
STAT 12652     C    C  
No of Credits from 
Compulsory Units 30 31 29 31 32 31 30 29 31 30 
Handbook-2024/2025, Faculty of Science, University of Kelaniya 
41 
 
3.2.2 BSc Degree Programme – Year of Study 2 
  Physical Sciences 
  Available combinations to select course units 
 
Course code Course unit combination (PSY2) 
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 
ACLT 120221 O O O O O O O O O O 
ACLT 210321 O O O O O O O O O O 
AMAT 21262 C   C   C  C  
AMAT 21272 C   C   C  C  
AMAT 22282 C   C   C  C  
AMAT 22292 C   C   C  C  
CHEM 21672      C C   C 
CHEM 21682      C C   C 
CHEM 21691      C C   C 
CHEM 22702      C C   C 
CHEM 22712      C C   C 
CHEM 22721      C C   C 
CMSK 140121,2 A A A A A A A A A A 
CMSK 140221,2 A A A A A A A A A A 
CMSK 140321,2 A A A A A A A A A A 
CMSK 140421,2 A A A A A A A A A A 
CMSK 140521,2 A A A A A A A A A A 
COSC 21052  C  C C C     
COSC 21063  C  C C C     
COSC 22073  C  C C C     
COSC 22083  C  C C C     
COST 21053        C  C 
COST 21063        C  C 
COST 22073        C  C 
COST 22082        C  C 
ELEC 21513   C     C   
ELEC 21521   C     C   
ELEC 22534   C     C   
ELEC 22541   C     C   
MAPS 22603 A A A A A A A A A A 
PHYS 21513 C C C     C   
PHYS 21521 C C C     C   
PHYS 22533 C C C     C   
PHYS 22541 C C C     C   
PHYS 22553 C C C     C   
PMAT 21263 C C C C C C C  C C 
PMAT 21272 C C C C C C C  C C 
PMAT 22282 C C C C C C C  C C 
PMAT 22293 C C C C C C C  C C 
STAT 21613     C    C  
STAT 21623     C    C  
STAT 22632     C    C  
STAT 22642     C    C  
STAT 22651     C    C  
No of Credits from 
Compulsory Units 29 32 30 29 32 31 28 31 29 31 
   
 1The credits that are not counted for GPA 
2At least one of the CMSK course units should be completed within the first two years of the study 
  
Handbook-2024/2025, Faculty of Science, University of Kelaniya 
42 
3.2.3 BSc Degree Programme – Year of Study 3 
  Physical Sciences 
  Available combinations to select course units 
Course code Course unit combination (PSY3) 
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 
AMAT 31303 O   O   O  O  
AMAT 31313 C   C   C  C  
AMAT 32323 C   C   C  C  
AMAT 32333 O   O   O  O  
AMAT 32343 O   O   O  O  
AMAT 32353 O   O   O  O  
CHEM 31731      C C   C 
CHEM 31742      O O   O 
CHEM 31752      O O   O 
CHEM 32762      O O   O 
CHEM 32771      O O   O 
CHEM 32782      O O   O 
COSC 31093  O  O O O     
COSC 31103  C  C C C     
COSC 31112  O  O O O     
COSC 32133  O  O O O     
COSC 32142  O  O O O     
COSC 32152  O  O O O     
COSC 32162  O  O O O     
COSC 34122  O  O O O     
COST 31093        C  C 
COST 31102        O  O 
COST 31112        O  O 
COST 31122        O  O 
COST 32143        C  C 
COST 32152        O  O 
COST 32162        O  O 
COST 32182        O  O 
ELEC 31513   C     C   
ELEC 31521   C     C   
ELEC 32534   O     O   
ELEC 33542   C     C   
MAPS 32612 A A A A A A A A A A 
MDGP 31982 O O O O O O O O O O 
PHYS 31512 C C C     C   
PHYS 31521 C C C     C   
PHYS 315321 O O O     O   
PHYS 315441 O O O     O   
PHYS 325512 C C         
PHYS 325622 C C         
PHYS 325721 O O O     O   
PHYS 325821,3 O O O     O   
PMAT 31303 C C C C C C C  C C 
PMAT 31312 O O O O O O O  O O 
PMAT 32322 O O O O O O O  O O 
PMAT 32332 O O O O O O O  O O 
PMAT 32342 O O O O O O O  O O 
PRPL 31992 O O O O O O O O O O 
STAT 31613     C    C  
STAT 31622     C    C  
STAT 31631     C    C  
STAT 316424     O    O  
STAT 31653     O    O  
STAT 32652     O    O  
STAT 326634     O    O  
STAT 32672     C    C  
STAT 326824     O    O  
No of Credits from 
Compulsory Units 15 12 12 12 14 7 10 15 17 10 
 
1Compulsory for BSc Hons (Physics) Degree 
2Available only for the students who are NOT doing Electronics as a subject 
3Availability of the course unit will be announced by the Department of Physics at the beginning 
of each academic year 
4Compulsory only for BSc Hons (Statistics) Degree  
Handbook-2024/2025, Faculty of Science, University of Kelaniya 
43 
3.3 BSc Degree – Course Structure 
 Physics and Electronics (PE) 
 
 
 
Course code 
Course unit combination (PE) 
Year of Study 
1 
Year of Study 
2 
Year of Study 
3 
 Path 1 Path 2 Path 1 Path 2 Path 1 Path2 
ACLT 110131,2 C C     
ACLT 120221 O O O O   
ACLT 210321 O O O O   
AMAT 11223 C      
AMAT 12253 O      
AMAT 21262   O    
AMAT 32323     O  
CMSK 140121 A A A A   
CMSK 140221 A A A A   
CMSK 140321 A A A A   
CMSK 140421 A A A A   
CMSK 140521 A A A A   
COST 11012  C     
COST 11023  C     
COST 12032  C     
COST 12043  C     
COST 21053    C   
COST 21063    C   
COST 22073    C   
COST 22082    C   
COST 31093      C 
COST 31102      O 
COST 31112      O 
COST 31122      O 
COST 32143      O 
COST 32152      O 
COST 32162      O 
COST 32182      O 
ELEC 11513 C C     
ELEC 11521 C C     
ELEC 12534 C C     
ELEC 12541 C C     
ELEC 21513   C C   
ELEC 21521   C C   
ELEC 22534   C C   
ELEC 22541   C C   
ELEC 31513     C C 
ELEC 31521     C C 
ELEC 32534     C C 
ELEC 33542     C C 
MAPS 11512 A A     
MAPS 22603   A A   
MAPS 32612     A A 
MDGP 31982     O O 
PHYS 11512 C C     
PHYS 11521 C C     
PHYS 11532 C C     
PHYS 12542 C C     
PHYS 12552 C C     
PHYS 12561 C C     
PHYS 21513   C C   
PHYS 21521   C C   
PHYS 22533   C C   
PHYS 22541   C C   
PHYS 22553   C C   
PHYS 31512     C C 
PHYS 31521     C C 
PHYS 31532     C C 
Handbook-2024/2025, Faculty of Science, University of Kelaniya 
44 
PHYS 31544     O O 
PHYS 32572     C C 
PHYS 32582     C C 
PMAT 11223 C C     
PMAT 11232 C C     
PMAT 12253 C      
PMAT 21263   C C   
PMAT 22282   C    
PMAT 22293   C    
PMAT 31303     C  
PMAT 31312     C C 
PMAT 32322     O  
PMAT 32332     O  
PRPL 31992     O O 
No of Credits from 
Compulsory Units 30 34 28 34 24 24 
 
1The credits that are not counted for GPA 
  2ACLT 11013 should be successfully completed (minimum C pass) within the first two years of the study 
 
Handbook-2024/2025, Faculty of Science, University of Kelaniya 
45 
3.4 BSc Degree – Course Structure 
 Environmental Conservation and Management (ENCM) 
 
Course code Course unit combination (ENCM) 
Year 1 Year 2 Year 3 
ACLT 110131,2 C   
ACLT 120221 O O  
ACLT 210321 O O  
CHEM 11612 C   
CHEM 11622 C   
CHEM 11631 C   
CHEM 12652 C   
CHEM 12661 C   
CHEM 21672  C  
CHEM 22721  C  
CHEM 32762   C 
CHEM 32771   C 
CMSK 140121 A A  
CMSK 140221 A A  
CMSK 140321 A A  
CMSK 140421 A A  
CMSK 140521 A A  
ENCM 11702 C   
ENCM 11713 C   
ENCM 11722 C   
ENCM 12732 C   
ENCM 12742 C   
ENCM 12752 C   
ENCM 21703  C  
ENCM 21711  C  
ENCM 21722  C  
ENCM 21732  C  
ENCM 21743  C  
ENCM 21752  C  
ENCM 22762  C  
ENCM 22773  C  
ENCM 22782  C  
ENCM 22791  C  
ENCM 22802  C  
ENCM 31702   C 
ENCM 31712   C 
ENCM 31722   C 
ENCM 31732   C 
ENCM 31742   C 
ENCM 31752   C 
ENCM 31762   C 
ENCM 327823   O 
ENCM 327923   O 
ENCM 32805   C 
ENCM 33774   C 
MIBI 22554  C  
MIBI 22562  C  
PLBL 11543 C   
PLBL 12543 C   
ZOOL 12733 C   
ZOOL 32752   C 
No of Credits from 
Compulsory Units 30 32 28 
 
  1The credits that are not counted for GPA 
    2ACLT 11013 should be successfully completed (minimum C pass) within the first two years of the study 
  3Student should accumulate credits for at least one optional course unit offered in the third year 
    
Handbook-2024/2025, Faculty of Science, University of Kelaniya 
46 
    
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.   COURSE STRUCTURE  
BSc Hons DEGREE  
Handbook-2024/2025, Faculty of Science, University of Kelaniya 
47 
4.1 Honours Degree Biological Sciences– Course Structure  
Biochemistry, Chemistry, Computer Studies, Environmental Conservation and 
Management, Microbiology, Molecular Biology and Plant Biotechnology, Plant 
Biology, Zoology 
 Course code Course combination  
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 
BIOC 32652 O     O   
BIOC 32661 O     O   
BIOC 44703        C 
BIOC 44724        C 
BIOC 44734        C 
BIOC 44742        C 
BIOC 44752        C 
BIOC 447611        C 
BIOC 44771        C 
BIOC 44783        C 
BIOC 44794        C 
BIOC 43803        C 
BIOC 43818        C 
BIOC 44824        C 
BIOC 44833        C 
BIOC 44844        C 
BIOC 44853        C 
BIOC 44862        C 
CHEM 31731 C   C C C   
CHEM 31742 O   O O O   
CHEM 31752 O   O O O   
CHEM 32762 O  C O O O   
CHEM 32771 O  C O O O   
CHEM 32782 O   O O O   
CHEM 44704  C      C 
CHEM 44714  C       
CHEM 44723  C       
CHEM 44733  C      C 
CHEM 44743  C       
CHEM 44753  C      C 
CHEM 44762  C       
CHEM 44772  C       
CHEM 44782  C      C 
CHEM 44792  C       
CHEM 44802  C       
CHEM 448111  C       
CHEM 44821  C       
CHEM 44832  C       
CHEM 44843  C       
CHEM 44854  C       
CHEM 44863  C       
CHEM 44874  C      C 
CHEM 44884  C       
CHEM 44893  C       
CHEM 44902  C       
CHEM 44912  C       
CHEM 43928  C       
COST 31093       C  
COST 31102       C  
COST 31112       C  
COST 31122       C  
COST 31133       C  
COST 32143       C  
COST 32152       C  
COST 32162       C  
COST 32173       C  
COST 32182       O  
 
 
 
 
        
Course combination  
Course code Course combination  
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 
COST 44193       C  
COST 44203       C  
COST 44213       C  
COST 44223       C  
COST 44233       C  
COST 44243       C  
COST 44253       C  
COST 44262       C  
COST 44272       C  
COST 44283       O  
COST 44293       O  
COST 44303       O  
COST 44313       O  
COST 44322       O  
COST 44332       O  
COST 44342       O  
COST 44352       O  
COST 44364       C  
COST 43378       C  
ENCM 31702   C      
ENCM 31712   C      
ENCM 31722   C      
ENCM 31732   O      
ENCM 31742   O      
ENCM 31752   O      
ENCM 31762   O      
ENCM 32782   O      
ENCM 32792   O      
ENCM 41702   C      
ENCM 41713   C      
ENCM 41753   C      
ENCM 41774   C      
ENCM 41783   O      
ENCM 41793   O      
ENCM 41802   O      
ENCM 41813   O      
ENCM 41822   O      
ENCM 41832   O      
ENCM 41842   O      
ENCM 41852   O      
ENCM 42732   C      
ENCM 42745   C      
ENCM 42873   C      
ENCM 42883   C      
ENCM 43722   C      
ENCM 43868   C      
ENCM 44763   C      
MBBT 31514     C    
MBBT 31522     C    
MBBT 32533     C    
MBBT 32541     C    
MBBT 32552     C    
MBBT 41763     C    
MBBT 41773     C    
MBBT 41804     C    
MBBT 41813     C    
MBBT 41824     C    
 
               Handbook-2024/2025, Faculty of Science, University of Kelaniya 
 
50 
 
 
       
Course code 
Course combination  
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 
MBBT 41834     C    
MBBT 41844     C    
MBBT 42784     C    
MBBT 42793     C    
MBBT 42853     C    
MBBT 42863     C    
MBBT 43872     C    
MBBT 43888     C    
MIBI 31514    C     
MIBI 31522    C     
MIBI 32556    C     
MIBI 33534    C     
MIBI 33541    C     
MIBI 33562    O     
MIBI 41784    C     
MIBI 41804    C     
MIBI 41824    C     
MIBI 43764    C     
MIBI 43774    C     
MIBI 43794    C     
MIBI 43814    C     
MIBI 43834    C     
MIBI 43846    C     
MIBI 43852    C     
MIBI 43868    C     
PLBL 31514 C        
PLBL 31521 C        
PLBL 32533 C        
PLBL 32542 C        
PLBL 32552 C        
PLBL 41763 C        
PLBL 41772 C        
PLBL 41783 C        
PLBL 41833 C        
PLBL 41854 C        
PLBL 41863 C        
PLBL 42793 C        
PLBL 42802 C        
PLBL 42822 C        
PLBL 42893 C        
PLBL 42903 C        
PLBL 43872 C        
PLBL 43882 C        
PLBL 43918  C        
PLBL 44812 C        
PLBL 44843 C        
         
Course code 
Course combination  
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 
PRPL 31992 O    O O O  
ZOOL 31703      C   
ZOOL 31722      C   
ZOOL 32733      C   
ZOOL 32742      C   
ZOOL 32752   C   C   
ZOOL 32762      C   
ZOOL 41703      C   
ZOOL 41711      C   
ZOOL 41722      C   
ZOOL 41732      C   
ZOOL 41752      C   
ZOOL 41792      C   
ZOOL 41802      C   
ZOOL 41813      C   
ZOOL 41823      C   
ZOOL 41832      C   
ZOOL 41842      C   
ZOOL 42773      C   
ZOOL 42784      C   
ZOOL 42853      C   
ZOOL 428622      O   
ZOOL 428722      O   
ZOOL 428822      O   
ZOOL 428922      O   
ZOOL 429023      O   
ZOOL 429123      O   
ZOOL 429223      O   
ZOOL 429323      O   
ZOOL 43742      C   
ZOOL 43948      C   
ZOOL 447624      O   
ZOOL 449524      O   
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
 
 
1The credits that not counted for GPA are also not counted to the total credits 
2,3In the second semester of the year of study 4, the student should accumulate at least 6 credits by selecting 
three course units either from 2 or 3 
4BSc Hons (Zoology) students must follow at least one of the two level 4 optional course units in the year of 
study 
48 
               Handbook-2024/2025, Faculty of Science, University of Kelaniya 
 
49 
 
4.2  Honours  Degree  Physical  Sciences  – Course  Structure  
Chemistry, Computer Science, Computer Studies, Electronics, Mathematics, 
Mathematical Physics, Physics, Statistics 
 
 
 
Course code Course combination  
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 
AMAT 21272    O O      
AMAT 31313   C        
AMAT 41363 C O         
AMAT 41373 C O         
AMAT 41403 O O         
AMAT 41413 C  O        
AMAT 41423 C          
AMAT 41433 C          
AMAT 42383 C O         
AMAT 42393 C  C        
AMAT 42443 O  C        
AMAT 42453 C          
AMAT 42463 O          
AMAT 43976 C  C        
CHEM 44704         C  
CHEM 44714         C  
CHEM 44723         C  
CHEM 44733         C  
CHEM 44743         C  
CHEM 44753         C  
CHEM 44762         C  
CHEM 44772         C  
CHEM 44782         C  
CHEM 44792         C  
CHEM 44802         C  
CHEM 448111         C  
CHEM 44821         C  
CHEM 44832         C  
CHEM 44843         C  
CHEM 44854         C  
CHEM 44863         C  
CHEM 44874         C  
CHEM 44884         C  
CHEM 44893         C  
CHEM 44902         C  
CHEM 44912         C  
CHEM 43928         C  
COSC 220832      C     
COSC 31093       C    
COSC 31103      O C    
COSC 31112       O    
COSC 32133       C    
COSC 32142       C    
COSC 32152       O    
COSC 32162       O    
COSC 34122       O    
COSC 44172       C    
COSC 44183       C    
COSC 44193      O C    
COSC 44203       C    
COSC 44213       C    
COSC 44223       C    
COSC 44232       C    
COSC 44243       C    
COSC 44252       C    
COSC 44263       C    
COSC 44273       O    
Course code Course combination  
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 
COSC 44283       O    
COSC 44293       O    
COSC 44303       O    
COSC 44313       O    
COSC 44323       O    
COSC 44333       O    
COSC 44343       O    
COSC 44353       O    
COSC 44364       C    
COSC 43378       C    
COST 31093        C   
COST 31102        C   
COST 31112        C   
COST 31122        C   
COST 311333        C   
COST 32143        C   
COST 32152        C  O 
COST 32162        C   
COST 32173        C   
COST 32182        O   
COST 44193        C   
COST 44203        C   
COST 44213        C   
COST 44223        C   
COST 44233        C   
COST 44243        C   
COST 44253        C   
COST 44262        C   
COST 44272        C   
COST 44283        O   
COST 44293        O   
COST 44303        O   
COST 44313        O   
COST 44322        O   
COST 44332        O   
COST 44342        O   
COST 44352        O   
COST 44364        C   
COST 43378        C   
ELEC 31513     C     C 
ELEC 31521     C     C 
ELEC 31553          C 
ELEC 31563          C 
ELEC 32573          C 
ELEC 32581          C 
ELEC 32592          C 
ELEC 43042          C 
ELEC 43053          C 
ELEC 43133          C 
ELEC 43158          C 
ELEC 44033          C 
ELEC 44064          C 
ELEC 44074          C 
ELEC 44084          C 
ELEC 44094          C 
ELEC 44123          C 
ELEC 44143          C 
49 
               Handbook-2024/2025, Faculty of Science, University of Kelaniya 
 
50 
 
Course code Course combination 
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 
ELEC 44163          C 
ELEC 44172          C 
ELEC 44182          C 
ELEC 44192          C 
ELEC 44202          C 
PHYS 31512   C C C     C 
PHYS 31521    C C C     C 
PHYS 31532    O C C      
PHYS 31544   C C C      
PHYS 32551   C C       
PHYS 32562   C C       
PHYS 32572   O C C      
PHYS 32582   C C C      
PHYS 43793    C C      
PHYS 43875    C C      
PHYS 43888   C C C      
PHYS 44764   C C C      
PHYS 44774   C C C     O 
PHYS 44784    C       
PHYS 44804   C C C      
PHYS 44814      C      
PHYS 44824    C C C     O 
PHYS 44834   C C C      
PHYS 44854   C C C      
PHYS 44864   C C C      
PMAT 31303    C C      
PMAT 32322   C   C C    
PMAT 32332   O        
PMAT 41343 C C C        
PMAT 41353 O O O        
PMAT 41393 C C C   O     
PMAT 414034 C C O        
PMAT 42363 C C C C       
PMAT 42373 O O O        
PMAT 42383 O O         
PMAT 42423 C C         
PMAT 42433 C C         
PMAT 42443 O O         
PMAT 43976 C C         
PMAT 44413  O         
PMAT 449625 C C O        
PRPL 31992 O O O O O O O O   
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1The credits that are not counted for GPA 
2Compulsory for all students who have not followed the course unit COSC 22083 in the Year of Study 2 
3Compulsory only for students entered to the Honours Degree Programme from the Biological Science stream 
4Students in the Mathematical Physics programme are strongly advised to attend this course 
5Students in the Mathematical Physics programme are recommended to attend this course 
6Compulsory for all students who have not followed the course units STAT 11613 and STAT 11621 in the Year of Study 1 
     
    Combination 1: A student should take either AMAT 43976 or PMAT 43976 
    Combination 3: A student should take either AMAT 43976 or PHYS 43888 
 
Note: Some of the optional course units will be offered depending on the staff availability. Students are requested to 
consult the Head of the Department prior to their registrations for the Year of Study 4 course unit. 
Course code Course combination   
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 
STAT 116136       C    
STAT 116216       C    
STAT 31613  C    C     
STAT 31622  C    C     
STAT 31631  O    C     
STAT 31642      C     
STAT 31653      O     
STAT 32652  O    O     
STAT 32663      C     
STAT 32672  C    C     
STAT 32682      C     
STAT 41613  C    C     
STAT 42643      C     
STAT 42653  C    C     
STAT 42663  O    C     
STAT 44673  C    C     
STAT 44623      C     
STAT 44633  C    C     
STAT 44683      C     
STAT 44694      C     
STAT 44713  O    O     
STAT 44723      O     
STAT 44733      O     
STAT 44743      O     
STAT 44758      C     
Handbook-2024/2025, Faculty of Science, University of Kelaniya 
51 
 
4.3 Honours Degree - Course Structure       
 Management and Information Technology (MIT)     
 Information Technology (IT) 
 
 
Course code 
Course Combination   
Course code 
Course Combination  
IT 
 
MIT  
IT 
 
MIT 
IS BSE 
OS
CM  IS BSE 
OS
CM 
ACLT 110131,2 C C C C  INTE 31356 C C C C 
ACLT 120221 O O O O  INTE 31423 A C O O 
ACLT 210321 O O O O  INTE 31413 A C O O 
CMSK 140121 A A A A  INTE 31393 C C O O 
CMSK 140221 A A A A  INTE 31233 C A A A 
CMSK 140321 A A A A  INTE 31243 O A A A 
CMSK 140421 A A A A  INTE 31283 O A A A 
CMSK 140521 A A A A  INTE 31373 O A A A 
DELT 11232 C C C C  INTE 31403 O A A A 
GNCT 132121 C C C C  INTE 41283 A C O O 
GNCT 232121 C C C C  INTE 44303 A  O O O 
GNCT 32216 C C C C  INTE 41393 C A A A 
INTE 11213 C C C C  INTE 41373 O A A A 
INTE 11223 C C C C  INTE 41323 O A A A 
INTE 12213 C C C C  INTE 41383 O A A A 
INTE 12223 C C C C  INTE 41413 O A A A 
INTE 12243 C C C C  INTE 41403 O A A A 
INTE 21213 C C C C  INTE 44343 O A A A 
INTE 21313 C C C C  INTE 42353 O A A A 
INTE 21323 C C C C  INTE 44333 O A A A 
INTE 21333 C C C C  INTE 432163 C C A A 
INTE 21243 C A A A       
INTE 21343 A C C C       
INTE 22293 C A A A       
INTE 22343 C C C C       
INTE 22253 C A A A       
INTE 22263 C A A A       
INTE 22303 C C C C       
INTE 22213 C A A A       
INTE 22283 C C C C       
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Handbook-2024/2025, Faculty of Science, University of Kelaniya 
52 
 
 
 
Course code 
Course Combination   
Course code 
Course Combination  
IT 
 
MIT  
IT 
 
MIT 
IS BSE 
OS
CM  IS BSE 
OS
CM 
MGTE 11233 C C C C  MGTE 41233 A O O O 
MGTE 11243 C C C C  MGTE 44303 A C O O 
MGTE 12253 C C C C  MGTE 41313 C C C C 
MGTE 12263 C C C C  MGTE 41343 A O O C 
MGTE 12273 C C C C  MGTE 41353 A O  O O 
MGTE 21243 A C C C  MGTE 41363 A O O O 
MGTE 21233 A C C C  MGTE 41373 A O O O 
MGTE 22273 A C C C  MGTE 41383 A O O O 
MGTE 22263 A C C C  MGTE 432163 A A C C 
MGTE 31393 A C C C  MGTE 44273 A O O O 
MGTE 31293 A O C  O   MGTE 42223 A O O O 
MGTE 31403 A O C  O   MGTE 42213 A O C O 
MGTE 31413 A O O C  MGTE 42323 A O O C 
MGTE 31373 C C C  C  MGTE 42313 A O O O 
MGTE 31423 A O C C  MGTE 42243 A O O O 
MGTE 31433 A O O O  MGTE 42333 C O O O 
MGTE 31303 A O O C  PMAT 11212 C C C C 
MGTE 31383 O O O O  PMAT 12212 C C C C 
MGTE 31443 A O O O  PMAT 31212  O  A A  A  
MGTE 41323 C C C C  
MGTE 41333 A O C O  
 
1The credits that are not counted for GPA 
2ACLT 11013 should be successfully completed (minimum C pass) within the first two years of the study 
3Students should take either MGTE 43216 or INTE 43216 
 
Course Combinations of HDMIT:  
Information Systems (IS),  
Business Systems Engineering (BSE), 
Operations and Supply Chain Management (OSCM) 
 
 
Note:  1. Some of the optional course units will be offered depending on the staff availability. Students are 
requested to consult the Head of the Department prior to their registrations for the Year of Study 3 and 
Year of Study 4 course units. 
 
2. A student who follows BSc Hons in MIT/IT Degree programmes may take any course units offered by 
the Department of Industrial Management and Axillary course units offered by any other Faculties/ 
department, subject to meeting the prerequisite requirements, subject availability, capacity and 
scheduling.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Handbook-2024/2025, Faculty of Science, University of Kelaniya 
53 
 
 
 
 
4.4 Honours Degree - Course Structure 
Software Engineering (SENG) 
 
 
Course code 
Course 
Combination 
(SENG) 
ACLT 110131,2 C 
ACLT 120221 O 
ACLT 210321 O 
CMSK 140121 A 
CMSK 140221 A 
CMSK 140321 A 
CMSK 140421 A 
CMSK 140521 A 
DELT 11232 C 
DELT 12282 C 
GNCT 132123 C 
GNCT 232123 C 
PMAT 11212 C 
PMAT 12212 C 
PMAT 22213 O 
SENG 11213 C 
SENG 11223 C 
SENG 11232 C 
SENG 11243 C 
SENG 12213 C 
SENG 12223 C 
SENG 12233 C 
SENG 12242 C 
SENG 21213 C 
SENG 21222 C 
SENG 21233 C 
SENG 21243 C 
SENG 21253 C 
SENG 21263 O 
SENG 22212 C 
SENG 22223 C 
SENG 22233 C 
SENG 22243 C 
SENG 22253 O 
SENG 24213 C 
SENG 24272 C 
SENG 31212 C 
SENG 31222 C 
SENG 31232 C 
SENG 31242 C 
SENG 31252 C 
SENG 34262 C 
SENG 31272 O 
SENG 31282 O 
SENG 31292 O 
 
53
 
Handbook-2024/2025, Faculty of Science, University of Kelaniya 
54 
 
 
 
 
Application Domains AD1 AD2 AD3 AD4 AD5 AD6 
SENG 313134 O           
SENG 313234   O         
SENG 313334     O       
SENG 313434       O     
SENG 313534         O   
SENG 313634           O 
SENG 32216 C 
SENG 34213 C 
SENG 34222 C 
       
Application Domains AD1 AD2 AD3 AD4 AD5 AD6 
SENG 41212 C 
SENG 41222 C 
SENG 41233 O 
SENG 41242 O 
SENG 41252 O 
SENG 41262 O 
SENG 41272 O 
SENG 412835 O      
SENG 412935   O         
SENG 413035     O       
SENG 413135       O     
SENG 413235         O   
SENG 413335           O 
SENG 422735 O           
SENG 422835   O         
SENG 422935     O       
SENG 423035       O     
SENG 423135         O   
SENG 423235           O 
SENG 43216 C 
SENG 44212 C 
SENG 44222 O 
SENG 44232 O 
SENG 44242 O 
SENG 44252 O 
 
1The credits that are not counted for GPA 
                         2ACLT 11013 should be successfully completed (minimum C pass) within the first two years of the study 
 3Offered during alternate academic years for non-biology students  
4One course unit from this group should be selected based on the preferred application domain 
5Two course units from this group should be selected based on the preferred application domain 
 
 
AD1 - Net Centric Applications domain 
AD2 - Mobile Computing Applications domain 
AD3 - Data Science and Engineering Applications domain 
AD4 - Health Informatics Applications domain 
AD5 - Digital Gaming and Animation Applications domain 
AD6 - Business Engineering Applications domain 
 
 
 
Note:  Some of the optional course units will be offered depending on the staff availability. Students 
are requested to consult the Head of the Software Engineering Teaching Unit prior to their 
registrations for the Year of Study 3 and Year of Study 4 course units.  
Handbook-2024/2025, Faculty of Science, University of Kelaniya 
55 
 
 
4.5 Honours Degree - Course Structure 
Applied Chemistry (APCH) 
 
 
Course code 
Course 
Combination 
(APCH) 
ACLT 110131,2 C 
ACLT 120221 O 
ACLT 210321 O 
APCH 11612 C 
APCH 12622 C 
APCH 12632 C 
APCH 21642 C 
APCH 21652 C 
APCH 21663 C 
APCH 21672 C 
APCH 21682 C 
APCH 22692 C 
APCH 22702 C 
APCH 22712 C 
APCH 22721 C 
APCH 22732 C 
APCH 31742 C 
APCH 31752 C 
APCH 31761 C 
APCH 31772 C 
APCH 31782 C 
APCH 32793 C 
APCH 32802 C 
APCH 32812 C 
APCH 32821 C 
APCH 32832 C 
APCH 32842 C 
APCH 41862 C 
APCH 41872 C 
APCH 42882 C 
APCH 42893 C 
APCH 42903 C 
APCH 42912 O 
APCH 42922 O 
APCH 42932 C 
APCH 42942 O 
APCH 43853 C 
APCH 44958 C 
CHEM 116011  C 
CHEM 11612  C 
CHEM 11622  C 
CHEM 11631  C 
CHEM 12642 C 
CHEM 12652 C 
CHEM 12661 C 
CHEM 21682 C 
CHEM 21691 C 
CHEM 22702 C 
CHEM 22712 C 
CHEM 22721 C 
CHEM 31731 C 
CMSK 140121 A 
CMSK 140221 A 
Handbook-2024/2025, Faculty of Science, University of Kelaniya 
56 
 
CMSK 140321 A 
CMSK 140421 A 
CMSK 140521 A 
DELT 11232 C 
ELEC 11534 C 
ELEC 11541 C 
ENCM 31812 C 
ENCM 31823 C 
MACS 22563 C 
MACS 11512 C 
MACS 11521 C 
MACS 12532 C 
MACS 32603 C 
MACS 42612 O 
MACS 42622 O 
MIBI 12532 C 
MIBI 42512 O 
 
1The credits that are not counted for GPA 
                         2ACLT 11013 should be successfully completed (minimum C pass) within the first two years of the study 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Handbook-2024/2025, Faculty of Science, University of Kelaniya 
57 
 
 
4.6  Honours Degree – Course Structure 
 Electronics and Computer Science (BECS) 
 
Course code 
Course combination 
(BECS) 
Year 1 Year 2 
ACLT 110131,2 C  
ACLT 120221 O O 
ACLT 210321 O O 
BECS 11212 C  
BECS 11223 C  
BECS 11413 C  
BECS 11422 C  
BECS 11431 C  
BECS 11613 C  
BECS 11722 C  
BECS 12233 C  
BECS 12243 C  
BECS 12443 C  
BECS 12451 C  
BECS 12462 C  
BECS 12623 C  
BECS 12712 C  
BECS 12742 C  
BECS 21213  C 
BECS 21223  C 
BECS 21413  C 
BECS 21422  C 
BECS 21431  C 
BECS 21613  C 
BECS 21722  C 
BECS 21732  C 
BECS 22233  C 
BECS 22243  C 
BECS 22443  C 
BECS 22451  C 
BECS 22462  C 
BECS 22623  C 
BECS 22712  C 
BECS 22732  C 
BECS 22811  C 
CMSK 140121 A A 
CMSK 140221 A A 
CMSK 140321 A A 
CMSK 140521 A A 
 
1The credits that are not counted for GPA 
2ACLT 11013 should be successfully completed (minimum C pass) within the first two years of the study 
 
 
 
 
 
Handbook-2024/2025, Faculty of Science, University of Kelaniya 
58 
 
 
Course code 
Course combination  
(BECS) Year 4 
1 2 3 
BECS 44213 O O O 
BECS 44223 O - O 
BECS 44233 C - C 
BECS 44243 O - O 
BECS 44253 O - O 
BECS 44263 O O C 
BECS 44273 O - O 
BECS 44283 O - C 
BECS 44292 O - C 
BECS 44303 O - C 
BECS 44414 O C - 
BECS 44424 - C - 
BECS 43432 O C - 
BECS 44443 O C - 
BECS 44453 C C - 
BECS 44462 C C - 
BECS 44472 C C - 
BECS 44482 C C - 
BECS 44492 O C - 
BECS 43816 C - - 
BECS 44826 C - O 
BECS 44014 - C - 
BECS 44024 - C - 
BECS 43033 - C - 
BECS 43043 - C - 
BECS 44053 - C - 
BECS 44062 - O - 
BECS 44072 - O - 
BECS 44082 - O - 
BECS 44093 - C - 
BECS 44613 - - O 
BECS 44622 - - O 
BECS 44633 - - C 
BECS 44643 - - O 
BECS 44653 - - O 
BECS 44663 - - C 
BECS 44673 - - O 
BECS 44682 - - O 
BECS 44693 - - O 
BECS 44703 - - O 
BECS 44712 - - O 
BECS 44723 - - O 
BECS 44733 - - O 
BECS 44743 - - O 
BECS 43838 - C C 
 
Note: 1. Some courses are not offered in the respective course pathway. 
2. Some of the Year of Study 4 courses are offered in Year of Study 3.  
3. Students must check with the relevant department before registering for the course modules. 
 
1 - Electronics and Computer Science 
2 - Specialization in Electronics Subject discipline 
3 - Specialization in Computer Science Subject discipline 
 
Course code 
Course combination  
(BECS) Year 3 
1 2 3 
BECS 31213 O - C 
BECS 31233 C - C 
BECS 31242 O - O 
BECS 31412 C C - 
BECS 31421 C C - 
BECS 31433 C C - 
BECS 31443 C C - 
BECS 31712 O O - 
BECS 31722 O - - 
BECS 31732 O - - 
BECS 31811 C - - 
BECS 32253 C O C 
BECS 32263 O - C 
BECS 32272 O O O 
BECS 32453 C C - 
BECS 32461 C C - 
BECS 32472 O C - 
BECS 32502 O O - 
BECS 32742 O - - 
BECS 34223 O - O 
Handbook-2024/2025, Faculty of Science, University of Kelaniya 
59 
 
 
4.7 Honours Degree - Course Structure  
 Sports Science (BSSS) 
 
 
Course code 
Course 
Combination 
(BSSS) 
ACLT 110131,2 C 
ACLT 120221 O 
ACLT 210321 O 
BSSS 01512 C 
BSSS 01522 C 
BSSS 01532 C 
BSSS 01542 C 
BSSS 01552 C 
BSSS 01562 C 
BSSS 11011 C 
BSSS 11023 C 
BSSS 11032 C 
BSSS 11042 C 
BSSS 11052 C 
BSSS 11062 C 
BSSS 11072 C 
BSSS 11082 C 
BSSS 12092 C 
BSSS 12102 C 
BSSS 12111 C 
BSSS 12122 C 
BSSS 12134 C 
BSSS 12142 C 
BSSS 12152 C 
BSSS 21013 C 
BSSS 21022 C 
BSSS 21032 C 
BSSS 21042 C 
BSSS 21052 C 
BSSS 21061 C 
BSSS 21072 C 
BSSS 21081 C 
BSSS 22092 C 
BSSS 22102 C 
BSSS 22112 C 
BSSS 22121 C 
BSSS 22132 C 
BSSS 22142 C 
BSSS 22152 C 
BSSS 22162 C 
BSSS 22171 C 
BSSS 31012 C 
BSSS 31022 C 
BSSS 31032 C 
BSSS 31041 C 
BSSS 31052 C 
BSSS 31062 C 
BSSS 31072 C 
BSSS 31083 C 
BSSS 31091 C 
Handbook-2024/2025, Faculty of Science, University of Kelaniya 
60 
 
BSSS 32102 C 
BSSS 32112 C 
BSSS 32122 C 
BSSS 32132 C 
BSSS 32142 C 
BSSS 32151 C 
BSSS 41012 C 
BSSS 41022 C 
BSSS 41036 C 
BSSS 41041 C 
BSSS 41053 C 
BSSS 42063 C 
BSSS 42072 C 
BSSS 42082 C 
BSSS 42093 C 
BSSS 42106 C 
CMSK 140221 A 
CMSK 140321 A 
CMSK 140421 A 
CMSK 140521 A 
 
1The credits that are not counted for GPA 
2ACLT 11013 should be successfully completed (minimum C pass) within the first two years of the study 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Handbook-2024/2025, Faculty of Science, University of Kelaniya 
61 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5. COURSE UNITS  
Handbook-2024/2025, Faculty of Science, University of Kelaniya 
62 
 
 
Course Units offered for BSc, BSc (ENCM), BSc (PE), BSc Hons (IT), BSc Hons (MIT), BSc Hons (SENG), 
BSc Hons (APCH), BSc Hons (BECS), and BSc Hons (BSSS) Degree Programmes 
 
Academic Literacy   
Course modules of the Academic Literacy programme are provided in Section 5. Module 1 of the 
programme should be completed within the first two years of the study. It is recommended that all 
students to complete the Academic literacy programme during the undergraduate period. Attending 
the final examination with the requirement of minimum 80% attendance throughout the course will be 
compulsory for the completion of each module. Credits earned in these modules shall not be considered 
for the calculation of the GPA. Certificate will be issued after the successful completion of the Academic 
Literacy programme. 
 
Academic Literacy Course Units offered for BSc, BSc (ENCM), BSc (PE), BSc Hons (IT), BSc Hons 
(MIT), and BSc Hons (SENG), BSc Hons (APCH), BSc Hons (BECS), BSc Hons (BSSS) 
Degree Programmes 
 Course Units Status Pre- requisite 
Year of Study  
1 
ACLT 11013 Academic Literacy I1,2 C None 
ACLT 12022 Academic Literacy II1 O ACLT 11013 
Year of Study  
2 or 3  
Sem 3 or 5 
ACLT 21032 Academic Literacy III1 
 
O 
 
ACLT 12022 
 
1The credits that are not counted for GPA 
2ACLT 11013 should be successfully completed (minimum C pass) within the first two years of the study 
 
 
Complementary Skill Development  
These course units are offered by the Faculty of Science in collaboration with other faculties of the 
university adhering to the following conditions. Courses will be offered to students as Year of Study 1 
course units of Complementary Skill Development (CMSK). Every student who enrols in Bachelor of 
Science Degree Programmes under the Biological Science and Physical Science streams of the Faculty of 
Science is required to complete at least one CMSK course unit within the years of Study 1 and 2. Names 
of the course units are provided below. The minimum number of students required to open a course is 
25 students. Students should have a minimum attendance of 80% with successful completion of 
continuous course assessments to complete any of the CMSK courses. Credits earned in these course 
units shall not be considered for the calculation of the GPA. Successfully completed courses will be 
mentioned in the transcript.  
 
 
1The credits that are not counted for GPA 
2Restricted enrolment 
3Offered only in one of the two semesters based on the student enrolment 
4Not offered for students following BSc Hons in Sports Science Degree 
5Offered for non-Biology students 
6Not offered for students following BSc Hons in Electronics and Computer Science Degree 
Complementary Skill Development Course Units offered for BSc, BSc (ENCM), BSc (PE), BSc Hons 
(IT), BSc Hons (MIT), and BSc Hons (SENG), BSc Hons (APCH), BSc Hons (BECS), BSc Hons (BSSS) 
Degree Programmes 
 Course Units Status 
Year of Study  
1 and 2 
Sem 1 to 4 
CMSK 14012 Effective Leadership Through Sports1,4 A 
CMSK 14022 Photography for Social and Emotional Learning1,2,3 A 
CMSK 14032 Emotional Intelligence and Mindfulness1,2 A 
CMSK 14042 Introduction to Computer Hardware and Consumer 
Electronics1,2,3,6 
 
A 
CMSK 14052 People and Plants1,2,3,5 A 
Handbook-2024/2025, Faculty of Science, University of Kelaniya 
63 
 
 
 
Management and Computer Studies  
 
Management and Computer Studies (MACS) course modules bring together expertise from two 
subject domains to combine computing and management. MACS integrates computing skill with the 
thinking of management principles, Innovation and Entrepreneurship, Industrial Law and Accounting 
& Costing. These courses will improve students' career prospects and have the skills and knowledge 
to perform more effectively in their jobs. These course units are offered by the Department of 
Industrial Management. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Course Units offered for BSc Hons (APCH) Degree Programme 
 Course Units Status 
Year of Study  
1 and 2 
Sem 1 to 4 
MACS 11512 Management Theory and Practices C 
MACS 11521 Introduction to Intellectual Property Rights C 
MACS 12532 Principles of Accounting and Costing C 
MACS 22563 Introduction to Marketing and International Trade C 
Year of Study 
3 and 4 
Sem 5 to 8 
MACS 32603 Principles of Human Resource Management and Leadership C 
MACS 42612 Innovation and Entrepreneurship O 
MACS 42622 Industrial Law O 
Handbook-2024/2025, Faculty of Science, University of Kelaniya 
64 
 
 
Compulsory Course Units for Biological Science Stream  
 Course Units Status 
Year of Study 1 
Sem 1 
BIOL 11512 Scope and Fundamentals of Microbiology C 
BIOL 11522 Genetics C 
BIOL 11532 Basic Biochemistry C 
BIOL 11552 Evolutionary Biology and Biogeography C 
Year of Study 1, 2 
or 3 MGMT 11022Communication Skills and Personality Development1,2 C 
 
1The credits that are not counted for GPA 
2Should offer during the three-year period of the Degree Programme 
 
 
Compulsory Course Units for BSc Hons (MIT) Degree and BSc Hons (IT) Degree Programmes 
 Course Units Status 
Year of Study 1 
Sem 1 DELT 11232 English for Professionals C 
 
 
Compulsory Course Units for BSc Hons (SENG) Degree Programmes 
 Course Units Status 
Year of Study 1 
Sem 1 DELT 11232 English for Professionals C 
Year of Study 1 
Sem 2 DELT 12282 Communication Skills for Professionals C 
 
 
 
Compulsory Course Units for BSc Hons (APCH) Degree Programme 
 Course Units Status 
Year of Study 1 
Sem 1 DELT 11232 English for Professionals C 
 
Compulsory Course Units for BSc Hons (BSSS) Degree Programme 
 Course Units Status 
Year of Study 1 
Sem 1 
BSSS 01512 Basic English for Science C 
BSSS 11052 English Language 1 C 
Year of Study 1 
Sem 2 BSSS 12152 English Language 2 C 
Year of Study 2 
Sem 3 BSSS 21081 English Language 3 C 
Year of Study 2 
Sem 4 BSSS 22171 English Language 4 C 
Year of Study 3 
Sem 5 BSSS 31091 English Language 5 C 
Year of Study 3 
Sem 6 BSSS 32151 English Language 6 C 
Year of Study 4 
Sem 7 BSSS 41041 English Language 7 C 
 
 
 
 
Handbook-2024/2025, Faculty of Science, University of Kelaniya 
65 
 
 
1Optional for Physics and Electronic students only 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Subject: Applied Mathematics (AMAT) 
BSc 
 Course Units Status Pre-requisite Co-requisite 
Year of 
Study 1  
Sem 1 
 
AMAT 11223 Vector Analysis 
 
C 
GCE A/L 
Combined 
Mathematics 
 
- 
 
AMAT 11232 Mechanics I 
 
C 
GCE A/L 
Combined 
Mathematics 
 
- 
Year of 
Study 1  
Sem 2 
AMAT 12242 Vector Methods in 
Geometry 
C AMAT 11223 - 
AMAT 12253 Numerical Methods I1 C/O AMAT 11223 - 
Year of 
Study 2 
Sem 3 
AMAT 21262 Scientific Computing using 
Appropriate Software I1 
C/O AMAT 12253 - 
AMAT 21272 Mechanics II C AMAT 11232 - 
Year of 
Study 2 
Sem 4 
AMAT 22282 Numerical Methods II C AMAT 12253 - 
AMAT 22292 Scientific Computing using 
Appropriate Software II 
 
C 
 
AMAT 21262 
 
AMAT 22282 
Year of 
Study 3 
Sem 5 
AMAT 31303 Mathematics for Finance I O PMAT 21272 - 
AMAT 31313 Computational 
Mathematics 
C AMAT 22292 - 
 
 
PRPL 31992 Professional Placement 
 
 
O 
All Year 1 and 
2 Compulsory 
AMAT course 
modules 
- 
Year of 
Study 3 
Sem 6 
AMAT 32323 Mathematical Modelling1 C/O PMAT 22282 - 
AMAT 32333 Introduction to Fluid 
Dynamics 
O PMAT 22293 - 
AMAT 32343 Mathematics for Finance II O AMAT 31303 - 
AMAT 32353 Mechanics III O AMAT 21272 - 
 
Handbook-2024/2025, Faculty of Science, University of Kelaniya 
66 
 
 
Subject: Applied Mathematics (AMAT) 
BSc Hons 
 Course Units Status Pre-requisite Co-requisite 
Year of 
Study 3 
Sem 5 
AMAT 41363 Qualitative & 
Quantitative Behaviour of the 
solutions of Ordinary Differential 
Equations 
 
C 
 
AMAT 22292 
 
- 
AMAT 41373 Advanced 
Computational Mathematics 
 
C 
 
AMAT 22292 
- 
Year of 
Study 3 
Sem 6 
AMAT 42383 Advanced Mathematical 
Modelling 
 
C 
 
AMAT 41363 
- 
AMAT 42393 Fluid Dynamics C PMAT 41343 - 
AMAT 42463 Advanced Mechanics O AMAT 21272 - 
Year of 
Study 4 
Sem 7 
AMAT 41403 Financial Mathematics O PMAT 21272 - 
AMAT 41413 Quantum Mechanics 
and Quantum Field Theory 
C AMAT 11223 
PMAT 21263 
 
- 
AMAT 41423 Linear & Non-Linear 
Programming 
C PMAT 21263 - 
AMAT 41433 Boundary Value 
Problems 
C PMAT 42373/ 
PMAT 32322 
 
- 
Year of 
Study 4 
Sem 7& 8 
 
AMAT 43976 Research Project1 
 
C 
 
PMAT 44962 
 
- 
Year of 
Study 4 
Sem 8 
AMAT 42443 Tensors and General 
Relativity 
C PMAT 21263 - 
AMAT 42453 Computational Fluid 
Dynamics Using Appropriate Software 
 
C 
 
AMAT 42393 
 
- 
 
1Compulsory for the student who has not offered PMAT 43976 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Handbook-2024/2025, Faculty of Science, University of Kelaniya 
67 
 
 
 
 
 
1Lecture cum Practical 
 
Subject: Applied Chemistry (APCH) 
BSc Hons  
 Course Units Status 
Year of 
Study 1  
Sem 1 
 
APCH 11612 Computer Skills for Chemists 
 
  C 
Year of 
Study 1 
Sem 2 
APCH 12622 Basic Statistical Methods   C 
 
APCH 12632 Biomolecules1 
 
  C 
Year of 
Study 2 
Sem 1 
APCH 21642 Principles of Analytical Chemistry   C 
APCH 21652 Soil Chemistry, Terrestrial Pollution & 
Management of Solid and Hazardous Waste 
   
  C 
APCH 21663 Atmospheric Chemistry, Aquatic Chemistry  
and Pollution & Treatment 
   
  C 
APCH 21672 Polymer Chemistry   C 
APCH 21682 Scientific Communication Skills   C 
Year of 
Study 2 
Sem 2 
 
APCH 22692 Sample Preparation and Chemo metrics   C 
APCH 22702 Case study I (Environmental)   C 
APCH 22712 Polymer technology   C 
APCH 22721 Environmental Chemistry Laboratory   C 
APCH 22732 Environmental Toxicology, Green Chemistry 
and Cleaner Production       
   
  C 
Year of 
Study 3 
Sem 1 
APCH 31742 Food Chemistry    C 
APCH 31752 Food Technology   C 
APCH 31761 Food Chemistry Laboratory   C 
APCH 31772 Solid State Chemistry   C 
APCH 31782 Laboratory Safety, Occupational Health, Safety 
Management and Laboratory Quality Systems 
   
  C 
 
 
Year of 
Study 3 
Sem 2 
APCH 32793 Advanced Analytical Chemistry   C 
APCH 32802 Case Study II (Industry)    C 
APCH 32812 Chemical Industries in Sri Lanka I  
(minerals, petroleum, metals, packaging, leather) 
   
  C 
APCH 32821 Industrial Chemistry Laboratory   C 
APCH 32832 Chemical Technology I   C 
APCH 32842 Chemical Industries II (plantation crops)   C 
Year of 
Study 4 
Sem 1 
APCH 43853 Industrial Training   C 
APCH 41862 Molecular biology   C 
APCH 41872 Productivity and Quality Management   C 
 
 
Year of 
Study 4 
Sem 2 
APCH 42882 Chemical Technology II   C 
APCH 42893 Ethan pharmacology and Health Products   C 
APCH 42903 Metabolism and Clinical Chemistry   C 
APCH 42912 Agrochemicals and Chemical Ecology   O 
APCH 42922 Nanoscience and Nanotechnology   O 
APCH 42932 Statistical Methods in Industry and Research   C 
APCH 42942 Biotechnology   O 
APCH 44958 Research   C 
Handbook-2024/2025, Faculty of Science, University of Kelaniya 
68 
 
 
Subject: Biochemistry1 (BIOC) 
BSc Hons 
 Course Units Status 
Year of 
Study 3 
BIOC 44703 Biophysical Chemistry C 
BIOC 44724 Cell Biology, Immunology, and Neurobiology C 
BIOC 44734 Advanced Molecular Biology and Molecular Genetics C 
BIOC 44742 Advanced Biochemistry Laboratory C 
BIOC 44752 Advanced Molecular Biology Laboratory C 
BIOC 44761 Industrial/ Professional Training1 C 
BIOC 44771 Scientific Communication C 
BIOC 44783 Programming for Bioinformatics C 
Year of 
Study 4 
BIOC 44794 Medicinal Chemistry and Clinical Biochemistry C 
BIOC 43803 Bioinformatics and Molecular Modelling C 
BIOC 43818 Research Project/ Dissertation        C 
BIOC 44824 Food and Nutritional Biochemistry C 
BIOC 44833 Molecular Markers and Transgenic Technology C 
BIOC 44844 Bioprocess Engineering       C 
BIOC 44853 Biochemical Engineering and Management Concepts in Biochemistry C 
BIOC 44862 Applied Environmental Biochemistry C 
 
1Limited enrolment 
 
 
Subject: Biochemistry1 (BIOC) 
BSc 
 Course Units Status Pre-requisite Co-requisite 
Year of 
Study 1  
Sem 1 
BIOL11532 Basic Biochemistry 
(Lecture cum Laboratory- for biological science 
stream) 
C G C E A/L 
Chemistry and 
Biology 
 
- 
Year of 
Study 1 
Sem 2 
BIOC 12612 Functional Biochemistry C BIOL 11532 BIOC 12632 
BIOC 12622 Metabolism of Biomolecules C BIOL11532 BIOC 12632 
BIOC 12632 Academic Research and Analytical 
Skills 
C BIOL 11532 BIOC 12612, 
BIOC 12622 
Year of 
Study 2 
Sem 3 
BIOC 21612 Molecular Biology C BIOC 12612 BIOC 21631 
BIOC 21622 Analytical Biochemistry C BIOC 12612 BIOC 21631 
 
BIOC 21631 Molecular Biochemistry Laboratory 
 
C 
 
BIOC 12632 
BIOC 21612, 
BIOC 21622 
Year of 
Study 2 
Sem 4 
BIOC 22642 Biotechnology C BIOC 21612 BIOC 22661 
BIOC 22652 Environmental and Agricultural 
Biochemistry 
C BIOC 21612 BIOC 22661 
BIOC 22661 Environmental and Agricultural 
Biochemistry Laboratory 
C BIOC 21631 BIOC 22642, 
BIOC 22652 
Year of 
Study 3 
Sem 5 
BIOC 31611 Seminar C BIOC 22652 - 
BIOC 31622 Immunochemistry & Neurochemistry C BIOC 22642 - 
BIOC 31632 Pharmaceutical Chemistry C BIOC 22642 BIOC 31641 
BIOC 31641 Pharmaceutical Chemistry Laboratory C BIOC 21631 BIOC 31632 
 
 
PRPL 31992 Professional Placement 
 
 
O 
All BIOC 
compulsory 
course units 
offered in 
Years of Study 
1 and 2 
 
 
- 
Year of 
Study 3 
Sem 6 
BIOC 32652 Food and Nutritional Biochemistry O BIOC 12612 
 
BIOC 32661 
BIOC 32661 Food and Nutritional Biochemistry 
Laboratory 
O BIOC 12612 BIOC 32652 
Handbook-2024/2025, Faculty of Science, University of Kelaniya 
69 
 
Subject: Electronics and Computer Science (BECS) 
BSc Hons 
 Course Units Status Pre-requisite Co-requisite 
Year of 
Study 1 
Sem 1 
BECS 11212 Foundations in Computer Science C G.C.E(A/L) BECS 11223 
BECS 11223 Fundamentals of Programming C G.C.E(A/L) BECS 11212 
BECS 11413 Analogue Electronics I  C A/L Physics BECS 11431 
BECS 11422 Electric Circuit Fundamentals C A/L Physics BECS 11431 
BECS 11431 Analogue Electronics Laboratory I C A/L Physics BECS 11413, 
BECS 11422 
BECS 11613 Applied Algebra & Statistics C A/L Combined 
Mathematics None 
BECS 11722 Fundamentals of Management Accounting C None None 
Year of 
Study 1 
Sem 2 
BECS 12233 Data Communications and Networks C BECS 11212   None 
BECS 12243 Object Oriented Programming C BECS 11223   None 
BECS 12443 Digital Electronics C BECS 11413 BECS 12451 
BECS 12451 Digital Electronics Laboratory C BECS 11431 BECS 12443 
BECS 12462 Mechanics & Properties of Materials C A/L Physics None 
BECS 12623 Calculus C BECS 11613 None 
BECS 12712 Foundation Course in English C None None 
BECS 12742 Project Management and Financing C None None 
Year of 
Study 2 
Sem 3 
BECS 21213 Software Engineering C BECS 12243 None 
BECS 21223 Data Structures and Algorithms C BECS 12243 None 
BECS 21413 Analogue Electronics II (Operational 
Amplifiers) C  
BECS 11413 
 
BECS 21431 
BECS 21422 Electromagnetism C BECS 11613 BECS 21431 
BECS 21431 Analogue Electronics Laboratory II C BECS 11431 BECS 21413, 
BECS 21422 
BECS 21613 Differential Equations, Integral Transforms 
& Numerical Method C A/L Combined 
Mathematics None 
BECS 21722 Organizational Behavior  C None None 
BECS 21732 Professional English C BECS 12712 None 
Year of 
Study 2 
Sem 4 
BECS 22233 Computer Architecture and Operating 
Systems C BECS 11212,  
BECS 12443 None 
BECS 22243 Database Management Systems C BECS 21223 None 
BECS 22443 Measurement & Instrumentation C 
All previous 
Compulsory Courses 
in Electronics 
BECS 22451 
BECS 22451 Measurement & Instrumentation 
Laboratory C 
All Previous 
Laboratory Classes in 
Electronics 
BECS 22443 
BECS 22462 Signals and Systems C BECS 21613   None 
BECS 22623 Numerical Methods in Scientific 
Computing C  
BECS 21613   None 
BECS 22712 English in Today’s World C BECS 21732 None 
BECS 22811 Creative Design Project I C All Previous 
Compulsory Courses None 
BECS 22732 Marketing Fundamentals C None None 
Year of 
Study 3 
Sem 5 
BECS 31213 Enterprise Software Design and 
Architecture1 O/C BECS 21223,  
BECS 22243 None 
BECS 31233 Web and Internet Technologies C BECS 12233, BECS 
12243, BECS 22243 None 
BECS 31242 Visual Programming O BECS 21213,  
BECS 22243 None 
BECS 31412 Microcontrollers and Embedded 
Electronics C All previous 
Compulsory Courses BECS 31421 
BECS 31421 Microcontrollers and Embedded 
Electronics Laboratory C 
All Previous 
Electronics Laboratory 
Classes of year of study 
1 & 2 
BECS 31412 
Handbook-2024/2025, Faculty of Science, University of Kelaniya 
70 
 
BECS 31433 Communication Systems C 
BECS 21413,  
BECS 21422,  
BECS 22462  
None 
BECS 31443 Control Systems Design C BECS 22462 None 
BECS 31712 Technical Communication O 
BECS 12712 
BECS 21732, 
BECS 22712 
None 
BECS 31722 Introduction to Entrepreneurship O None None 
BECS 31732 Legal Environment of Business O None None 
BECS 31811 Creative Design Project II C All Previous 
Compulsory courses None 
Year of 
Study 3 
Sem 6 
BECS 32253 Intelligent Systems2 O/C BECS 11212,  
BECS 21223 None 
BECS 32263 Full-stack Software Development 1 O/C BECS 31213 None 
BECS 32272 Mobile Application Development O BECS 12243,  
BECS 22243 None 
BECS 32453 Digital Signal Processing (DSP) C 
BECS 22462,  
BECS 31433,  
BECS 21613   
BECS 32461 
BECS 32461 Digital Signal Processing Laboratory  C 
All Previous 
Electronics 
Laboratory Classes 
BECS 32453 
BECS 32472 Programmable Logic Devices and HDL 3 O/C BECS 12443 None 
BECS 32502 Micro - Electro Mechanical Systems 
(MEMS) O BECS 11413,  
BECS 22443 None 
BECS 32742 Operations Management O None None 
 BECS 34223 Cyber Security and Forensics O BECS 12233 None 
Year of 
Study 4 
Sem 7& 8 
BECS 44213 Wireless Communication and Networks  O BECS 12233 None 
BECS 44223 Block chain and Cryptocurrency O BECS 12233 None 
BECS 44233 Computer Graphics and Visualization  C BECS 11223,  
BECS 11613 None 
BECS 44243 High Performance Computing O BECS 12233,  
BECS 22233 None 
BECS 44253 Emerging Technologies in Computer 
Science O 
All previous 
compulsory courses 
in Computer Science 
None 
BECS 44263 Machine Learning1 O/C BECS 44223 None 
BECS 44273 Game Development O BECS 44292 None 
BECS 44283 Advanced Databases 1 O/C BECS 22243 None 
BECS 44292 Human Computer Interaction 1 O/C BECS 21213 
BECS 31233 None 
BECS 44303 Information Assurance and Security 1 O/C BECS 12233 None 
BECS 44414 Power Electronics3 O/C BECS 11413,  
BECS 21413 None 
BECS 44424 CMOS VLSI system design 3 C 
BECS 11413, 
BECS 22462, 
BECS 12443 
None 
BECS 43432 Emerging Topics in Electronics 3 O/C 
All previous 
Compulsory course 
modules in Electronics 
None 
BECS 44443 RF & Microwave Circuits Design 3 O/C BECS 11413 None 
BECS 44453 Industrial Electronics C 
All previous 
Compulsory course 
modules in Electronics 
None 
BECS 44462 Industrial Automation  C BECS 31443  
BECS 22443  None 
BECS 44472 Electronics Product Design & 
Manufacturing C All Compulsory 
courses in Electronics None 
BECS 44482 Robotics and Automation C 
All Previous 
Electronics Course 
modules 
None 
Handbook-2024/2025, Faculty of Science, University of Kelaniya 
71 
 
 
1 Compulsory only for the students specialized in Computer Science. 
2 Optional only for the students specialized in Electronics.   
3 Compulsory only for the students specialized in Electronics. 
4 Offered only for the students in BSc Hons (Electronics and Computer Science).     
5 Compulsory only for the students in BSc Hons (Electronics and Computer Science).     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
BECS 44492 Electrical Machines and Drives 3 O/C BECS 11422,  
BECS 21422 None 
BECS 43816 Research Project (Group) 4 C All Compulsory 
courses None 
BECS 44826 Industrial Training5 O/C All Compulsory 
courses None 
BECS 44014 Advanced Analogue Electronics C 
BECS 11413,  
BECS 24114 &  
BECS 11422  
None 
BECS 44024 Advanced Electromagnetism C 
BECS 11422,  
BECS 21422, & All 
Mathematics Courses 
None 
BECS 43033 Advanced Experimental Laboratory I  C 
All previous 
Compulsory courses 
in Electronics 
None 
BECS 43043 Advanced Experimental Laboratory II  C 
All previous 
Compulsory courses 
in Electronics 
None 
BECS 44053 Optoelectronics O/C BECS 11413 None 
BECS 44062 Modern Radar Systems O BECS 21422 None 
BECS 44072 Physics of Semiconductor Devices  O BECS 11413,  
BECS 12462 None 
BECS 44082 Semiconductor Device Processing & 
Fabrication O 
BECS 11413,  
BECS 12462,  
BECS 44072 
None 
BECS 44093 Research and Development Internship in 
Electronics C 
All previous 
Compulsory courses 
in Electronics 
None 
BECS 44613 Data Science O BECS 44263 None 
BECS 44622 Big Data Technologies O BECS 12243,  
BECS 44283 None 
BECS 44633 Object-Oriented Analysis and Design C BECS 12243 None 
BECS 44643 Logic Programming O BECS 21223 None 
BECS 44653 Digital Image Processing and Computer 
Vision 
O BECS 21223 None 
BECS 44663 Theory of Computing C BECS 21223 None 
BECS 44673 Theory of Compilers O BECS 21223 None 
BECS 44682 Research Methodologies O BECS 11212 None 
BECS 44693 Multimedia Systems Development  O None None 
BECS 44703 Natural Language Processing O BECS 44223 None 
BECS 44712 Systems Administration O BECS 22233 None 
BECS 44723 Semantic Web and Ontological Modelling  O BECS 31233 None 
BECS 44733 Cloud Computing O BECS 12233 None 
BECS 44743 System Level Programming O BECS 22233 None 
 BECS 43838 Research Project (Individual) C All Compulsory 
courses None 
Handbook-2024/2025, Faculty of Science, University of Kelaniya 
72 
 
 
Subject: Sports Science (BSSS) 
BSc Hons 
 Course Units Status Pre-Requisite 
Year of 
Study 
1 
Sem 1 
BSSS 01512 Basic English for Science C GCE (A/L) 
BSSS 01522 Introduction to Biology C GCE (A/L) 
BSSS 01532 Introduction to Physics C GCE (A/L) 
BSSS 01542 Basic Mathematics C GCE (A/L) 
BSSS 01552 Introduction to Chemistry C GCE (A/L) 
 BSSS 01562 Introduction to Computer Science C GCE (A/L) 
Year of 
Study 
1 
Sem 1 
BSSS 11011 Sports history and Organization C GCE (A/L) 
BSSS 11023 Human Biology and Anatomy C BSSS 01522 
BSSS 11032 Basic Physics C BSSS 01532 
BSSS 11042 Mathematics C BSSS 01542 
BSSS 11052 English Language 1 C BSSS 01512 
BSSS 11062 Introduction to Psychology C BSSS 01522 
BSSS 11072 Lifestyle, Health and Hygiene Habit C BSSS 01522 
BSSS 11082 Strength and Conditioning Training C GCE (A/L) 
Year of 
Study 
1 
Sem 2 
BSSS 12092 Applied Biomechanics C BSSS 11032 
BSSS 12102 Training Principles and Training Methods C GCE (A/L) 
BSSS 12111 Sports Policy, Act and Regulations C GCE (A/L) 
BSSS 12122 Track and Field Athletics 1, and Swimming 1 C BSSS 11082 
BSSS 12134 Track and Field Athletics 2 C BSSS 12122 
BSSS 12142 Swimming 2 C BSSS 12122 
BSSS 12152 English Language 2 C BSSS 11052 
Year of 
Study 
2 
Sem 3 
BSSS 21013 Exercise Physiology and Sports Performance C BSSS 11023 
BSSS 21022 Child and Adult Psychology  C BSSS 11062 
BSSS 21032 Statistics for Sports Science C BSSS 11042 
BSSS 21042 Training Components and Physical Qualities C BSSS 12102 
BSSS 21052 Role of the Coach and Leadership Development C GCE (A/L) 
BSSS 21061 Gymnastics 1 C GCE (A/L) 
 BSSS 21072 Gymnastics 2 C BSSS 21061 
 BSSS 21081 English Language 3 C BSSS 12152 
Year of 
Study 
2 
Sem 4 
BSSS 22092 Human Kinesiology C BSSS 21013 
BSSS 22102 Exercise Science and Postural Correction  C BSSS 22092 
BSSS 22112 Sports Psychology C BSSS 21022 
BSSS 22121 Computer and Analytical Application for Sports 
Science  C BSSS 11042 & 
BSSS 01562 
BSSS 22132 Periodization and Training Methodology C BSSS 21042 
BSSS 22142 Nutrition, Recovery Technique and First aid C GCE (A/L) 
BSSS 22152 Management Skills and Sports Event Management C GCE (A/L) 
BSSS 22162 Time and Record Sports C GCE (A/L) 
BSSS 22171 English Language 4 C BSSS 21081 
Year of 
Study 
3 
Sem 5 
 
BSSS 31012 Biochemistry, Performance Enhancement 
Products and Doping C BSSS 22142 
BSSS 31022 Sport Skills and Human Performance Analysis C BSSS 12092 
BSSS 31032 Test and Measurement, and Human Energy 
system C BSSS 21013 
BSSS 31041 Physiotherapy and Sports Massage 
 C BSSS 21013 
BSSS 31052 Sports Facility Development, Maintenance and 
Marketing C  
BSSS 22152 
 
BSSS 31062 Combat and Body Contact Sports C All Sports Science 
courses 
 
BSSS 31072 Team Sports 
 
C 
All Sports Science 
courses 
BSSS 31083 Local and International Student Exchange 
programme or Planning and Field Work C All Sports Science 
courses 
Handbook-2024/2025, Faculty of Science, University of Kelaniya 
73 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
BSSS 31091 English Language 5 
 
C 
 
BSSS 22171 
Year of 
Study 
3 
Sem 6 
 
 
BSSS 32102 Mental Training Skills into Practice C All Sports Science 
courses 
 
BSSS 32112 Overtraining, Rest and Recovery Methods C All Sports Science 
courses 
 
BSSS 32122 Aquatic Sports C BSSS 12122 and 
BSSS 12142 
BSSS 32132 Racket Sports C GCE (A/L) 
 
BSSS 32142 Research Methodology C All Sports Science 
courses 
BSSS 32151 English Language 6 C BSSS 31091 
 
BSSS 32162 Planning and Field Work C All Sports Science 
courses 
Year of 
Study 
4 
Sem 7 
 
BSSS 41012 Calorie Expenditure and Nutrition Plan for 
Athletes C BSSS 31012 
BSSS 41022 Combined Events C BSSS 21042 
 
BSSS 41036 Internship  C All Sports Science 
courses 
BSSS 41041 English Language 7 C BSSS 32151 
BSSS 41053 Recreational Sports C GCE (A/L) 
Year of 
Study 
4 
Sem 8 
 
 
BSSS 42063 Special Education C BSSS 11023 and 
BSSS 21013 
BSSS 42072 Sports Tourism and Economics Development C GCE (A/L) 
BSSS 42082 Digital Living in Sports, Sports media and social 
media C N/A 
BSSS 42093 Type of Aerobic Exercise C GCE (A/L) 
 
BSSS 42106 Dissertation 
 
C 
All Sports Science 
courses 
Handbook-2024/2025, Faculty of Science, University of Kelaniya 
74 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1Compulsory for Biological Science stream 
2The credits that are not counted for GPA 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Subject: Chemistry (CHEM) 
BSc 
Year of 
Study 1 
Sem 1 
Course Units Status Pre-requisite Co-requisite 
CHEM 11601 Calculations in Chemistry1,2 C/O - - 
CHEM 11612 Atomic Structure, Periodic Table C G.C.E. A/L 
Chemistry - 
CHEM 11622 General Chemistry C G.C.E. A/L 
Chemistry - 
CHEM 11631 Basic Chemical Analysis Laboratory C - CHEM 11622 
Year of 
Study 1 
Sem 2 
CHEM 12642 Physical Chemistry I C G.C.E. A/L 
Chemistry - 
CHEM 12652 Stereochemistry and Reaction 
Mechanisms in Organic Chemistry C CHEM 11612 - 
CHEM 12661 Basic Organic Chemistry Laboratory C - CHEM 12652 
Year of 
Study 2 
Sem 3 
CHEM 21672 Analytical Chemistry C CHEM 11622 - 
CHEM 21682 Physical Chemistry II C CHEM 12642 - 
CHEM 21691 Physical Chemistry Laboratory C CHEM 12642 CHEM 21682 
Year of 
Study 2 
Sem 4 
CHEM 22702 Inorganic Chemistry C CHEM 11622  
CHEM 22712 Organic Synthesis, Spectroscopy and 
Aromaticity C CHEM 12652 - 
CHEM 22721 Analytical Chemistry Laboratory C CHEM 21672 - 
Year of 
Study 3 
Sem 5 
CHEM 31731 Organic and Inorganic Synthesis, 
Analysis and Natural Products Chemistry 
Laboratory 
C CHEM 11631, 
CHEM 12661 - 
CHEM 31742 Material Chemistry and Introduction 
to Quality Management O CHEM 22702 - 
CHEM 31752 Applied Natural Products Chemistry   O CHEM 22712 - 
PRPL 31992 Professional Placement O 
All CHEM 
compulsory 
course units 
offered in the 
Years of 
Study 1 and 2 
- 
Year of 
Study 3 
Sem 6 
CHEM 32762 Environmental Chemistry O CHEM 11622, 
CHEM 21672 CHEM 32771 
 
CHEM 32771 Environment Chemistry Laboratory 
 
O 
 
CHEM 22721 
 
CHEM 32762 
CHEM 32782 Polymer Chemistry O - - 
 
Handbook-2024/2025, Faculty of Science, University of Kelaniya 
75 
 
 
 
 
 
1Course units offered for the BSc Hons (Biochemistry) and (Chemistry) 
2The credits that are not counted for GPA 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Subject: Chemistry (CHEM) 
BSc Hons 
 Course Units Status 
Year of 
Study 3 
CHEM 44704 Advanced Analytical Chemistry1 C 
CHEM 44714 Advanced Biochemistry I C 
CHEM 44723 Advanced Inorganic Chemistry I C 
CHEM 44733 Advanced Organic Chemistry I1 C 
CHEM 44743 Advanced Physical Chemistry I C 
CHEM 44753 Analytical and Environmental Chemistry Laboratory1 C 
CHEM 44762 Biochemistry Laboratory C 
CHEM 44772 Inorganic Chemistry Laboratory C 
CHEM 44782 Organic Chemistry Laboratory1 C 
CHEM 44792 Physical Chemistry Laboratory C 
CHEM 44802 Applications in Computational Chemistry C 
CHEM 44811 Industrial/ Professional Placement2 C 
CHEM 44821 Seminar C 
CHEM 44832 Earth Resources and Smart Materials C 
Year of 
Study 4 
 
CHEM 44843 Advanced Biochemistry II C 
CHEM 44854 Advanced Environmental Chemistry C 
CHEM 44863 Advanced Inorganic Chemistry II C 
CHEM 44874 Advanced Organic Chemistry II1 C 
CHEM 44884 Advanced Physical Chemistry II C 
CHEM 44893 Chemical Engineering and Management Concepts in Industrial 
Chemistry C 
CHEM 44902 Food Chemistry C 
CHEM 44912 Polymer Chemistry C 
CHEM 43928 Research Project/Dissertation C 
Handbook-2024/2025, Faculty of Science, University of Kelaniya 
76 
 
 
Subject: Computer Science1 (COSC) 
BSc 
 Course Units Status Pre-requisite 
Year of 
Study 1 
Sem 1 
COSC 11012 Introduction to Computing C G.C.E. A/L 
COSC 11023 Fundamentals of Programming C G.C.E. A/L 
Year of 
Study 1 
Sem 2 
COSC 12033 Data Communication and Networks C COSC 11012 
COSC 12043 Object Oriented Programming C COSC 11023 
Year of 
Study 2 
Sem 3 
COSC 21052 Software Engineering C COSC 11012, 
COSC 12043 
COSC 21063 Data Structures and Algorithms C COSC 11023, 
COSC 12043 
Year of 
Study 2 
Sem 4 
COSC 22073 Computer Architecture and Operating Systems C COSC 11012, 
COSC 11023 
 
COSC 22083 Database Management Systems C COSC 11023 
Year of 
Study 3 
Sem 5 
PRPL 31992 Professional Placement O 
All Years of Study 
1 and 2  
course modules 
COSC 31093 Enterprise Software Design and Architecture O 
COSC 12043, 
COSC 21063, 
COSC 22083 
COSC 31103 Web & Internet Technologies C 
COSC 12033, 
COSC 12043, 
COSC 22083 
COSC 31112 Visual Programming O COSC 22083, 
COSC 21052 
Year of 
Study 3 
Sem 6 
 
COSC 32133 Full-Stack Software Development O COSC 31103 
COSC 32142 Artificial Intelligence O COSC 11012, 
COSC 11023 
COSC 32152 Mobile Application Development O COSC 12043, 
COSC 22083 
COSC 32162 Big Data Technologies O 
COSC 12033,  
COSC 12043, 
COSC 22083 
  
COSC 34122 Cyber Security O COSC 12033 
 
      
 1Limited Enrolment 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Handbook-2024/2025, Faculty of Science, University of Kelaniya 
77 
 
 
 
Subject: Computer Science1 (COSC) 
BSc Hons 
 Course Units Status Pre-requisite 
Year of 
Study 3 
Sem 5 
PRPL 31992 Professional Placement O 
All Years of Study  
1 and 2  
course modules 
COSC 31093 Enterprise Software Design and Architecture C 
COSC 12043,  
COSC 21063,  
COSC 22083 
COSC 31103 Web & Internet Technologies C 
COSC 12033,  
COSC 12043,  
COSC 22083 
COSC 31112 Visual Programming O COSC 22083,  
COSC 21052 
Year of 
Study 3 
Sem 6 
COSC 32133 Full-Stack Software Development C COSC 31103 
COSC 32142 Artificial Intelligence C COSC 11012,  
COSC 11023 
COSC 32152 Mobile Application Development O COSC 12043,  
COSC 22083 
COSC 32162 Big Data Technologies O 
COSC 12033,  
COSC 12043, 
 COSC 22083 
COSC 34122 Cyber Security O COSC 12033 
Year of 
Study 3 
and 4 
COSC 44172 Human Computer Interaction C COSC 21052, 
 COSC 31103 
COSC 44183 Computer Graphics and Visualization C COSC 11023 
COSC 44193 Advanced Databases C COSC 22083 
COSC 44203 Object Oriented Analysis and Design C COSC 32133 
COSC 44213 Information Assurance and Security C COSC 12033 
COSC 44223 Machine Learning C COSC 32142 
COSC 44232 Advanced Computer Architecture and 
Operating Systems 
C COSC 22073 
COSC 44243 Parallel and Distributed Computing C COSC 22073 
COSC 44252 Research Methodologies C COSC 11012 
COSC 44263 Theory of Computing C COSC 11012 
COSC 44273 Logic Programming O COSC 32142 
COSC 44283 Theory of Compilers O COSC 22073 
COSC 44293 Wireless Communication and Networks O COSC 12033 
COSC 44303 Natural Language Processing O COSC 32142 
COSC 44313 Image Processing and Computer Vision O COSC 32142 
 
COSC 44323 Emerging Technologies in Computer Science 
 
O 
All compulsory 
COSC course units 
of Year of Study 3 
COSC 44333 Game Development O COSC 44183 
COSC 44343 Data Science O COSC 44223 
COSC 44353 Cloud Computing O COSC 12033 
 
COSC 44364 Industrial Training 
 
C 
All compulsory 
COSC course units 
of Years of Study 1, 
2 and 3 
COSC 43378 Research Project C All the compulsory 
COSC courses 
  
1Limited Enrolment 
Handbook-2024/2025, Faculty of Science, University of Kelaniya 
78 
 
 
 
 
1Limited Enrolment 
2Optional for BSc in (PE) students only 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Subject: Computer Studies1 (COST) 
BSc 
 Course Units Status Pre-requisite Co-requisite 
Year of 
Study 1 
Sem 1 
COST 11012 Introduction to Computing C G.C.E. A/L COST 11023 
COST 11023 Fundamentals of Programming C G.C.E. A/L COST 11012 
Year of 
Study 1 
Sem 2 
COST 12032 Introduction to Computer Networks C COST 11012 - 
COST 12043 Database Management Systems C COST 11012, 
COST 11023 
- 
Year of 
Study 2 
Sem 3 
COST 21053 Object Oriented Programming C COST 11023, 
COST 12043 
- 
COST 21063 Systems Analysis & Design C COST 11012 COST 21053 
Year of 
Study 2 
Sem 4 
COST 22073 Web Development C COST 21053 - 
COST 22082 Information Systems C COST 21063 - 
Year of 
Study 3 
Sem 5 
COST 31093 Event Driven Programming C COST 22073 - 
COST 31102 Social and Professional Issues in 
Computing O COST 21063 - 
COST 31112 Human Computer Interaction O COST 22073, 
COST 22082 
COST 31093 
COST 31122 Software Project Management O COST 22082 - 
PRPL 31992 Professional Placement O 
All Years of 
Study and 2 
course 
modules 
 
 
- 
Year of 
Study 3 
Sem 6 
COST 32143 Multimedia Technologies2 C/O - - 
COST 32152 Mobile Application Development O COST 21053 - 
COST 32162 Software Quality Assurance O COST 22082 - 
COST 32182 Industry-based Project O 
All the  
Years of Study 
01 and Years 
of Study 02 
courses,  
COST 31093 
 
 
- 
Handbook-2024/2025, Faculty of Science, University of Kelaniya 
79 
 
 
 
Subject: Computer Studies1 (COST) 
BSc Hons 
 Course Units Status Pre-requisite Co-requisite 
Year of 
Study 3 
Sem 5 
COST 31093 Event Driven Programming 
 C COST 22073 - 
COST 31102 Social and Professional Issues in 
Computing C COST 21063 - 
COST 31112Human Computer Interaction C COST 22073, 
COST 22082 
COST 31093 
COST 31122 Software Project Management C COST 22082 - 
COST 31133 Mathematics for Information Technology2 C GCE (A/L)  
PRPL 31992 Professional Placement O All Years of Study 1 
and 2 course modules 
- 
Year of 
Study 3 
Sem 6 
COST 32143 Multimedia Technologies C - - 
COST 32152 Mobile Application Development C COST 21053 - 
COST 32162 Software Quality Assurance C COST 22082 - 
COST 32173 Statistics for Information Technology C GCE (A/L) - 
COST 32182 Industry-based Project O 
All Years of Study 1 
and 2 courses,  
COST 31093 
 
- 
Years of 
Study 3 
and 4 
Sem 5-8 
COST 44193 Advanced Computer Networks C COST 12032 - 
COST 44203 Advanced Databases C COST 12043 - 
COST 44213 Cloud Computing C COST 12032 - 
COST 44223 Computer Architecture and Operating 
Systems C COST 11012, 
COST 11023 
 
- 
COST 44233 Data Structures and Algorithms C COST 21053 - 
COST 44243 Information Security C COST 22082 - 
COST 44253 Object Oriented Analysis and Design C COST 21053 - 
COST 44262 Research Methodologies C COST 22082, 
COST 32173 
- 
COST 44272 System Administration C COST 12032 - 
COST 44283 Applied Robotics O COST 11023 - 
COST 44293 Block chain and Cryptocurrency O COST 12032, 
COST 44243 
- 
COST 44303 Business Intelligence O COST 11023, 
COST 32173 
- 
COST 44313 Internet of Things O COST 11023, 
COST 12032 
- 
COST 44322 Big Data Technologies O COST 21053, 
COST 12032 
- 
COST 44332 Business Process Analysis and Design O COST 22082 - 
COST 44342 Emerging Technologies in Information 
Technology O 
All compulsory COST 
course units of Year of 
Study 3 
 
- 
COST 44352 Games Design O COST 31112 - 
COST 44364 Industrial Training C 
All compulsory COST 
course units of Years 
of Study 1, 2 and 3 
 
- 
COST 43378 Research Project C All the compulsory 
COST courses 
- 
 
Note: Other Year of Study 4 course units will be offered either in Semester I or Semester II of Year of 
Study3 or Year of Study 4 
1Limited enrolment 
2Compulsory only for students entered to the BSc Hons Degree Programme from the Biological Science stream 
Handbook-2024/2025, Faculty of Science, University of Kelaniya 
80 
 
 
 
 
 
1Limited enrolment 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Subject: Electronics1 (ELEC) 
BSc 
 Course Units Status Pre-requisite Co-requisite 
Year of 
Study 1  
Sem 1  
ELEC 11534 Basic Electronics C A/L Physics ELEC 11521 
ELEC 11541 Basic Electronics Laboratory C A/L Physics ELEC 11513 
Year of 
Study 1 
Sem 2 
ELEC 12534 Analogue Electronics C A/L Physics ELEC 12541 
ELEC 12541 Analogue Electronics Laboratory C ELEC 11521 ELEC 12534 
Year of 
Study 2  
Sem 3 
ELEC 21513 Digital Electronics C ELEC 12534 ELEC 21521 
ELEC 21521 Digital Electronics Laboratory C ELEC 12541 ELEC 21513 
Year of 
Study 2 
Sem 4 
ELEC 22534 Signal Processing and Data 
Acquisition C ELEC 21513 ELEC 22541 
ELEC 22541 Signal Processing and Data 
Acquisition Laboratory C ELEC 21521 ELEC 22534 
Year of 
Study 3 
Sem 5 
PRPL 31992 Professional Placement O - - 
ELEC 31513 Computer Organization and 
Architecture C ELEC 22534 ELEC 31521 
ELEC 31521 Computer Architecture 
Laboratory C ELEC 22541 ELEC 31513 
ELEC 31553 Communication Systems C ELEC 22534 - 
ELEC 31563 Control Systems Design C ELEC 22534 - 
Year of 
Study 3 
Sem 6 
ELEC 32534 Special Topics in Electronics O ELEC 31513 - 
ELEC 33542 Research Project C 
All ELEC 
Compulsory 
Course Units 
- 
ELEC 32573 Digital Signal Processing C ELEC 22534 ELEC 32581 
ELEC 32581 Digital Signal Processing 
Laboratory C ELEC 22534 ELEC 32573 
ELEC 32592 Digital System Design with PLD C ELEC 21513 - 
Handbook-2024/2025, Faculty of Science, University of Kelaniya 
81 
 
 
 
 
  1Limited enrolment 
 
 
 
Subject: Electronics1 (ELEC) 
BSc Hons 
 Course Units Status Pre-requisite Co-requisite 
Year of 
Study 4 
ELEC 44033 Microcontrollers and Embedded 
Systems C ELEC 22513 ELEC 43053 
ELEC 43042 Emerging Topics in Electronics C 
All the 
compulsory 
modules in 
Electronics 
- 
ELEC 43053 Advanced Electronics Laboratory I C 
Level 4 
Compulsory 
Courses 
- 
ELEC 44064 Power Electronics C ELEC 11513, 
ELEC 12534 ELEC 43053 
ELEC 44074 Advanced Analogue Electronics C ELEC 11513, 
ELEC 12534 ELEC 43053 
ELEC 44084 Applied Electromagnetics C ELEC 31512 - 
ELEC 44094 CMOS VLSI Systems Design C ELEC 11513, 
ELEC 21513 ELEC 43053 
ELEC 44123 RF and Microwave Circuits Design C ELEC 11513, 
PHYS 32512 - 
ELEC 43133 Advanced Electronics Laboratory II C 
All Level 4 
compulsory 
Electronics 
modules 
- 
ELEC 44143 Research and Development Internship 
in Electronics C 
All the 
compulsory 
Electronics 
Modules 
- 
ELEC 43158 Research Project C 
All the previous 
compulsory 
Electronics 
Modules 
- 
ELEC 44163 Industrial Electronics C 
All the 
compulsory 
Electronics 
Modules 
ELEC 43133 
ELEC 44172 Industrial Automation C 
All the 
compulsory 
Electronics 
Modules 
ELEC 43133 
ELEC 44182 Robotics and Automation C 
All the 
compulsory 
Electronics 
Modules 
ELEC 43133 
ELEC 44192 Electrical Machines and Drives C ELEC 44064, 
ELEC 44084 ELEC 43133 
ELEC 44202 Electronics Product Design and 
Manufacturing C 
All the 
compulsory 
Electronics 
Modules 
ELEC 43133 
Handbook-2024/2025, Faculty of Science, University of Kelaniya 
82 
 
1Offered only for the students who follow the BSc Hons (Applied Chemistry) Degree Programme 
2Students should select at least one optional course unit  
 
 
 
Subject: Environmental Conservation and Management (ENCM) 
BSc 
 Course Units Status Pre-requisite Co-requisite 
Year of 
Study 1 
Sem 1 
ENCM 11702 Evolution of Earth and Biogeography C G.C.E. (A/L) 
Biology - 
ENCM 11713 Basic Geology and Soil Science C G.C.E. (A/L) 
Biology - 
ENCM 11722 Hydrology  C G.C.E. (A/L) 
Biology - 
Year of 
Study 1 
Sem 2 
ENCM 12732 Forest Resources C G.C.E. (A/L) 
Biology - 
ENCM 12742 Environmental Pollution C G.C.E. (A/L) 
Biology - 
ENCM 12752 Sustainability, Social Responsibility, and 
Environmental Management C - - 
Year of 
Study 2 
Sem 3 
ENCM 21703 Terrestrial and Aquatic Ecology C - ENCM 21711 
ENCM 21711 Terrestrial and Aquatic Ecology 
Laboratory C - ENCM 21703 
ENCM 21722 Environment and Human Health C ENCM 12742 - 
ENCM 21732 Sustainable Utilization of Energy 
Resources C ENCM 12752 - 
ENCM 21743 GIS and Remote Sensing C ENCM 12742 - 
ENCM 21752 Environmental Policies and Legislation C ENCM 12752 - 
Year of 
Study 2 
Sem 4 
ENCM 22762 Air Quality Management C ENCM 12742 - 
ENCM 22773 Solid and Hazardous Waste 
Management C ENCM 12742 - 
ENCM 22782 Wastewater Management C ENCM 12742 - 
ENCM 22791 Scientific Communication C - - 
ENCM 22802 Basic Statistics for Environmental 
Studies C - - 
Year of 
Study 3 
Sem 5 
ENCM 31702 Environmental Impact Assessment C ENCM 21752 - 
ENCM 31712 Environmental Economics C ENCM 12742 
 - 
ENCM 31722 Environmental Monitoring C ENCM 12742 - 
ENCM 31732 Occupational Health and Safety C ENCM 21722 - 
ENCM 31742 Environmental Management Systems 
and Standards C ENCM12752 - 
ENCM 31752 Green Technology and Eco-design C ENCM 12752 - 
ENCM 31762 Water Resources Management C ENCM 11722 - 
ENCM 31812 Environmental Policies and Legislation1 C - - 
ENCM 31823 Environmental Impact Assessment and 
Environmental Monitoring1 C - ENCM 31812 
 
ENCM 33774 Environmental Project C 
All Years of 
Study 1 and 2 
ENCM course 
units  
- 
Year of 
Study 3 
Sem 6 
ENCM 32782 Hazards and Disaster Risk Management2 O ENCM 12752 - 
ENCM 32792 Urban Environmental Management2 O ENCM 12752 - 
ENCM 32805 In-Plant Training C 
All Years of 
Study 1 and 2 
ENCM course 
units 
- 
Handbook-2024/2025, Faculty of Science, University of Kelaniya 
83 
 
 
 
 
1Students should obtain at least 06 credits from optional course units  
2Students should obtain at least 02 credits from optional course units  
3Students should obtain at least 10 credits from optional course units  
 
 
 
Subject: Environmental Conservation and Management (ENCM) 
BSc Hons 
 Course Units Status Pre-requisite 
Year of 
Study 3  
Sem 5 
ENCM 31702 Environmental Impact Assessment  C ENCM 21752 
ENCM 31712 Environmental Economics C ENCM 12742 
 
ENCM 31722 Environmental Monitoring  C ENCM 12742 
ENCM 31732 Occupational Health and Safety1 O ENCM 21722 
ENCM 31742 Environmental Management Systems and 
Standards1 O ENCM12752 
ENCM 31752 Green Technology and Eco-design1 O ENCM 12752 
ENCM 31762 Water Resources Management1 O ENCM 11722 
ENCM 41702 Research Methodology C ENCM 22802 
ENCM 41713 Geo informatics for Environmental Management C ENCM 21743 
ENCM 43722 Literature Review and Seminar on Special Topics 
in Environmental Management C ENCM 22791 
Year of 
Study3  
Sem 6 
ENCM 32782 Hazards and Disaster Risk Management2 O ENCM 12752 
ENCM 32792 Urban Environmental Management2  O ENCM 12752 
ENCM 42732 Statistics for Environmental Studies C ENCM 22802 
ENCM 42745 Professional Placement C 
All Year of 
Study 3 
compulsory 
ENCM course 
units 
Year of 
Study 4 
Sem 7 
ENCM 41753 Applications in Environmental Economics C ENCM 31712 
ENCM 41774 Environmental Toxicology and Risk Assessment C ENCM 21722 
ENCM 41783 Ecological Interactions and Dynamics3 O ENCM 21703 
ENCM 41793 Wetland Management3 O ENCM 21573 
ENCM 41802 Environmental Management in Fisheries and 
Aquaculture3 O ENCM 12592 
ENCM 41813 Wildlife and Protected Area Management3 O ZOOL 32752 
ENCM 41822 Ecotourism3 O ZOOL 32752 
ENCM 41832 Insects and Environment Management3 O ZOOL 12733 
ENCM 41842 Environmental Engineering3 O 
ENCM 22762  
ENCM 22773 
and  
ENCM 22782 
ENCM 41852 Environmental Biotechnology3 O 
MIBI 22554,  
MIBI 22562, 
ENCM 22773, 
and ENCM 
22782 
ENCM 43868 Research Project C 
ENCM 41702 
and ENCM 
42732 
ENCM 44763 Forest Resources Management C ENCM 12732 
Year of 
Study 4 
Sem 8 
ENCM 42873 Marine and Coastal Resources Management C ENCM 21703 
ENCM 42883 Climate Change, Mitigation, and Adaptation C ENCM 12752 
Handbook-2024/2025, Faculty of Science, University of Kelaniya 
84 
 
Subject: Generic Competencies (GNCT) 
BSc Hons (MIT)/ BSc Hons (IT) 
 Course Units Status 
Year of Study 1 
Sem 1 GNCT 132121 Personal Progress Development I C 
Year of Study 2 
Sem 3 GNCT 232121 Personal Progress Development II C 
Year of Study 3 
Sem 6 GNCT 32216 Internship C 
 
1The credits that are not counted for GPA 
 
 
1Can take either IMGT 14512 or MGMT 11012 
 
Subject: Information Technology (INTE) 
BSc Hons (MIT) & BSc Hons (IT) 
 Course Units Status Pre-requisite 
Year 
of 
Study 
1 
INTE 11213 Fundamentals of Computing C None 
INTE 11223 Programming Concepts C None 
INTE 12243 Computer Networks C INTE 11213 
INTE 12213 Object Oriented Programming C INTE 11223 
INTE 12223 Database Design and Development C INTE 11223 
Year 
of 
Study 
2 
 
INTE 21213 Information Systems Modelling 
C INTE 11223,  
INTE 12213 & 
INTE 12223 
INTE 21313 Business Information Systems C INTE 11213 
INTE 21323 Web Application Development C None 
 
INTE 21333 Event Driven Programming 
C INTE 12213 & 
INTE 12223 
INTE 21343 Software Engineering Concepts C INTE 21213 
 
INTE 21243 Computer Architecture and Operating Systems 
C INTE 11223 & 
INTE 11213 
INTE 22293 Software Architecture and Process Models C INTE 21213 
 
INTE 22343 Data Structures and Algorithms 
C INTE 11223 & 
INTE 12213 
 
INTE 22253 Distributed Systems and Cloud Computing 
C INTE 12213 & 
INTE 21323 
 
INTE 22263 Embedded Systems Development 
C INTE 11223 & 
INTE 21243 
INTE 22303 Artificial Intelligence C INTE 11223 
INTE 22283 Mobile Applications Development C INTE 12213 & 
INTE 21323 
INTE 22213 Software Design Patterns and Frameworks C INTE 21213 
 
 
Year 
of 
Study 
3 
INTE 31233 Human Computer Interaction C INTE 11213 
INTE 31283 Big Data and Data Warehousing O INTE 12223 
 
INTE 31356 Software Development Project 
 
C 
All Core 
Modules from 
L1 to L3 
INTE 31413 Information Technology Infrastructure C/O INTE 11213 & 
INTE 12243 
Subject: Industrial Management (IMGT) 
 Course Units Status 
Year of Study 1 IMGT 14512 Management Theory and Practice1 A 
Year of Study 2 IMGT 21511 Introduction to Intellectual Property  A 
Handbook-2024/2025, Faculty of Science, University of Kelaniya 
85 
 
INTE 31243 Software Quality Engineering O INTE 21343 
INTE 31373 Machine Learning O INTE 22303 
INTE 31393 Information Security C/O INTE 12243 & 
INTE 21313 
INTE 31403 System Administration and Maintenance O INTE 11213 & 
INTE 12243 
INTE 31423 Data Analytics and Visualization C/O INTE 21313 
Year 
of 
Study 
4 
INTE 41403 Advanced Databases O INTE 12223 
 
INTE 41413 Internet of Things 
O INTE 12243 & 
INTE 22263 
 
INTE 41393 System Integration Technologies 
C INTE 12213, 
INTE 21323 & 
INTE 22213 
 
INTE 44303 Information Audit and Assurance 
O INTE 21313, 
INTE 31393 & 
INTE 12243 
INTE 41283 Information Systems Management and Strategy C/O INTE 21313 
 
INTE 41373 Image Processing 
O INTE 11213, 
INTE 22343 & 
PMAT 31212 
INTE 41323 Neural Networks and Deep Learning O INTE 22303 
INTE 41383 Industrial Automation O None 
 
INTE 42353 Semantic Web and Ontological Engineering 
O INTE 12213 & 
INTE 21323 
 
INTE 44333 Complex Systems and Agent-Based Modelling 
O INTE 11223 & 
INTE 22303 
INTE 44343 Natural Language Processing O None 
INTE 43216 Research Project1 C MGTE 31383 
 
 
1Students should offer either MGTE 43216 or INTE 43216 
 
 
Subject: Management for Physical Science Students (MAPS) 
 BSc 
 Course Units Status Pre-Requisite 
Year of Study 1 
Sem 1 MAPS 11512 Management theory and Practices A - 
Year of Study 2 
Sem 4 
MAPS 22603 Principles of Human Resource Management 
and Leadership A - 
Year of Study 3 
Sem6 MAPS 32612 Innovation and Entrepreneurship A - 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Handbook-2024/2025, Faculty of Science, University of Kelaniya 
86 
 
 
Subject: Management and Technology (MGTE) 
BSc Hons (MIT)/ BSc Hons (IT) 
 Course Units Status Pre-Requisite 
Year 
of 
Study 
1 
MGTE 11233 Business Statistics and Economics C None 
MGTE 11243 Principles of Management & Organizational 
Behaviour 
 
C 
None 
MGTE 12253 Accounting Concepts and Costing C None 
MGTE 12263 Optimization Methods in Management Science C None 
MGTE 12273 Industry and Technology C None 
Year 
of 
Study 
2 
MGTE 21243 Marketing Management C None 
MGTE 21233 Operations Management C None 
MGTE 22273 Human Resource Management & Leadership 
Communication 
 
C 
None 
MGTE 22263 Logistics and Supply Chain Management C None 
Year 
of 
Study 
3 
MGTE 31373 Project Management C None 
MGTE 31383 Research Methods O None 
MGTE 31403 Management of Technology C/O None 
MGTE 31413 Warehouse Management and Industrial Shipping C/O None 
MGTE 31433 Computer Based Tools for Management 
Applications 
 
O 
MGTE 12222 
MGTE 31443 Strategic Marketing and International Trade O MGTE 21243 
MGTE 31423 Advanced Optimization Methods in Management 
Science 
C/O MGTE 12263 
MGTE 31293 Computer Integrated Manufacturing C/O MGTE 12273 & 
MGTE 21233 
MGTE 31303 Procurement and Supply Management  C/O MGTE 21233 & 
MGTE 22263 
MGTE 31393 Managerial Finance C MGTE 12253 
Year 
of 
Study 
4 
 
 
MGTE 41373 Strategic Management 
 
 
O 
MGTE 11233, 
MGTE 21243,  
MGTE 21233 &  
MGTE 31393  
MGTE 41323 Professional Practices C MGTE 11243 
MGTE 41333 Business Process Engineering C/O MGTE 21233 
MGTE 41313 Statistical Data Modelling C MGTE 11233 
MGTE 41233 Corporate Finance  O MGTE 31393 
 
MGTE 41343 Logistics System Analysis and Geomatics 
 
C/O 
All compulsory 
modules for OSCM 
MGTE 44303 Enterprise Systems C/O INTE 21313 
MGTE 41383 Advanced Operations Management O MGTE 21233 
MGTE 41353 Sustainability and Economics in Logistics and Supply 
Chain 
 
O 
None 
MGTE 41363 Digital Innovations Management O INTE 21313 
MGTE 42213 Industrial and Systems Engineering C/O MGTE 21233 
MGTE 42223 Investment Management O MGTE 41233 
MGTE 42243 Advanced Planning and Scheduling O MGTE 12263 
 
MGTE 42313 Advanced Supply Chain and Logistics Applications 
 
O 
All compulsory 
modules for OSCM 
 
MGTE 42323 Strategic Quality Management and Lean Six Sigma 
 
C/O 
 
None 
MGTE 42333 Business and Information Technology Law C/O None 
MGTE 43216 Research Project1 C MGTE 31383 
MGTE 44273 Innovation and Entrepreneurship O None 
 
1Students should offer either MGTE 43216 or INTE 43216 
Handbook-2024/2025, Faculty of Science, University of Kelaniya 
87 
 
 
 
1Limited enrolment 
2Offered only for the students who follow the BSc Hons (Applied Chemistry) Degree Programme 
3Offered only for the students who follow the BSc (ENCM) Degree Programme 
4Compulsory only for the BSc Hons (Microbiology) students 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Subject: Microbiology1 (MIBI) 
 BSc 
 Course Units Status Pre-requisite Co-requisite 
Year of 
Study 1 
Sem 1 
BIOL 11512 Scope and Fundamentals of 
Microbiology (Lecture cum Laboratory) C A/L Biology 
 
- 
Year of 
Study 1 
Sem 2 
MIBI 12514 Diversity of Bacteria, Virus, and Fungi C BIOL 11512 MIBI 12522 
MIBI 12522 Laboratory Techniques on taxonomy 
of Bacteria, Virus, and Fungi C BIOL 11512 MIBI 12514 
MIBI 12532 Introductory Microbiology2 C A/L Science 
stream - 
Year of 
Study 2 
Sem 3 
MIBI 21514 Microbial Biochemistry and 
Physiology, Bacterial Genetics and its 
applications 
C MIBI 12514 
MIBI 12522 MIBI 21522 
MIBI 21522 Laboratory aspects of Microbial 
Biochemistry and Physiology, Bacterial Genetics C MIBI 12514 
MIBI 12522 MIBI 21514 
Year of 
Study 2 
Sem 4 
MIBI 22534 Fundamentals and Applications of 
Environmental and Agricultural Microbiology C MIBI 21514 
MIBI 21522 MIBI 22542 
MIBI 22542 Laboratory aspects of Environmental 
and Agricultural Microbiology C MIBI 21514 
MIBI 21522 MIBI 22534 
MIBI 22554 Microbiology for Environmental 
Management3 C ENCM 12553 MIBI 22562 
MIBI 22562 Laboratory Microbiology for 
Environmental Management3 C ENCM 12553 MIBI 22554 
Year of 
Study 3 
Sem 5 
PRPL 31992 Professional placement O 
All MIBI 
compulsory 
units offered in 
the Years of 
Study 1 & 2 
- 
MIBI 31514 Food Microbiology and Food 
Hygiene, Microbiology of Food Processing and 
Preservation 
C MIBI 21514 
MIBI 21522 
MIBI 31522 
 
MIBI 31522 Laboratory aspects of Food 
Microbiology, Food Processing, and Preservation C MIBI 21514 
MIBI 21522 MIBI 31514 
Year of 
Study 3 
Sem 6 
MIBI 32556 Industrial Training in Microbiology4 C/O MIBI 31514 
MIBI 31522 - 
MIBI 33534 Medical and Veterinary 
Microbiology, Microbial Technology4 C/O MIBI 21514 
MIBI 21522 MIBI 33541 
MIBI 33541 Laboratory aspects of Medical and 
Veterinary Microbiology4 C/O MIBI 21514 
MIBI 21522 MIBI 33534 
MIBI 33562 Special Topics in Microbiology O MIBI 31514 
MIBI 31522 MIBI 33534 
Handbook-2024/2025, Faculty of Science, University of Kelaniya 
88 
 
 
 
Subject: Microbiology1 (MIBI) 
BSc Hons 
 Course Units Status Pre-requisite 
Year 
of 
Study 
3 
MIBI 43764 Advanced study on selected taxonomic groups of 
Bacteria and Archaea, Applied Virology and Applied 
Mycology 
C 
 
All MIBI 
compulsory 
course units 
MIBI 43774 Advanced Bacterial Genetics, Bioethics and 
Biosafety, Bioinformatics, Molecular Biology, and Gene 
Technology 
Year 
of 
Study 
4 
MIBI 41784 Industrial Microbiology and Environmental 
Biotechnology 
MIBI 41804 Food Technology and Nutrition 
MIBI 41824 Microbiology of Fish Diseases, Advanced 
Bacterial Biochemistry and Physiology 
MIBI 43794 Specific Microbiological Standards and Testing, 
Quality Assurance of Foods 
MIBI 43814 Medical Microbiology and Immunology, 
Pharmaceutical Microbiology 
MIBI 43834 Veterinary Microbiology and Plant Pathology 
MIBI 43846 Studies on contemporary research in 
Microbiology 
MIBI 43852 Laboratory Microbiology 
MIBI 43868 Research Project 
MIBI 42512 Industrial Microbiology2 O MIBI 12532 
 
1Limited enrolment 
2Offered only for the students who follow the BSc Hons (Applied Chemistry) Degree Programme 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Handbook-2024/2025, Faculty of Science, University of Kelaniya 
89 
 
 
 
 
 
*PLBL course units offered in the Year of Study 1 and Year of Study 2 are considered as course units in the subject 
of specialization, to be eligible for the award of BSc Hons in Molecular Biology & Plant Biotechnology degree and 
for the award of classes. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Subject:  Molecular Biology and Plant Biotechnology (MBBT)* 
BSc Hons 
 Course Units Status Pre-requisite 
Year of 
Study 3 
Sem 5 
MBBT 31514 Principles and Techniques in Plant 
Biotechnology C 
 
All PLBL 
compulsory 
course units in 
Year of Study I 
and Year of 
Study 2 
MBBT 31522 Principles and Techniques in Plant 
Biotechnology Laboratory 
PRPL 31992 Professional Placement O 
MBBT 41763 Cell Biology and Biochemistry  
C 
MBBT 41773 Molecular Plant Breeding  
Year of 
Study 3 
Sem 6 
MBBT 32533 Plant Pathology 
MBBT 32541 Tissue Culture 
MBBT 32552 Principles and Practices of 
Horticulture  
MBBT 42784 Microbial Genetics 
MBBT 42793 Bioethics and Intellectual Property 
Rights 
Year of 
Study 4 
Sem 7 
MBBT 41804 Bioinformatics 
C 
All MBBT 
compulsory 
course units 
MBBT 41813 Agricultural, Environmental and 
Industrial Biotechnology 
MBBT 41824 Developmental Gene Regulation 
MBBT 41834 Genetic Manipulation of 
Microorganisms 
MBBT 41844 Omics Technologies 
Year of 
Study 4 
Sem 8 
MBBT 42853 Molecular Ecology 
MBBT 42863 Immunology and Cancer Biology 
MBBT 43872 Term Paper and Presentation 
MBBT 43888 Research Project - Dissertation 
Handbook-2024/2025, Faculty of Science, University of Kelaniya 
90 
 
 
 
 
 
1Limited enrolment 
2Compulsory for students who have followed Electronics as a subject and Optional for only Biological 
Science students 
3Compulsory for students following BSc Hons (Physics) Degree 
4Offered for students who have not followed Electronics as a subject 
5Availability of the course unit will be announced by the Department at the beginning of each academic year 
6Compulsory for students following BSc Hons (Mathematical Physics) Degree 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Subject: Physics1 (PHYS) 
 BSc 
 Course Units Status Pre-requisite Co-requisite 
Year of 
Study 1 
Sem 1 
PHYS 11512 Mechanics and Properties of Matter C A/L Physics PHYS 11521 
PHYS 11521 Elementary Physics Laboratory I C A/L Physics PHYS 11512 
PHYS 11532 
PHYS 11532 Electric Circuit Fundamentals C A/L Physics PHYS 11521 
Year of 
Study 1 
Sem 2 
PHYS 12542 Atomic and Nuclear Physics C A/L Physics PHYS 12561 
PHYS 12552 Special Theory of Relativity & 
Quantum Mechanics C A/L Physics PHYS 12561 
PHYS 12561 Elementary Physics Laboratory II C PHYS 11521 PHYS 12542 
PHYS 12552 
Year of 
Study 2 
Sem 3 
PHYS 21513 Waves and Optics C PHYS 12542 
PHYS 12552 PHYS 21521 
PHYS 21521 General Physics Laboratory I C PHYS 12561 PHYS 21513 
Year of 
Study 2 
Sem 4 
PHYS 22533 Solid State and Thermodynamics C PHYS 21513 PHYS 22541 
PHYS 22541 General Physics Laboratory II C PHYS 21521 PHYS 22553 
PHYS 22553 Environmental Physics2 O/C A/L Physics or 
Chemistry - 
Year of 
Study 3 
Sem 5 
PRPL 31992 Professional Placement O - - 
PHYS 31512 Electromagnetic Theory C PHYS 11532 PHYS 31521 
PHYS 31521 General Physics Laboratory III C PHYS 22541 PHYS 11532 
PHYS 31532 Introductory Biophysics3 O/C A/L Physics - 
PHYS 31544 Mathematical Methods in Physics3 O/C 
All Year of Study   
1 and 2 PHYS 
Compulsory 
Units 
- 
Year of 
Study 3 
Sem 6 
PHYS 32551 Electronics Laboratory4 C PHYS 31521 PHYS 32562 
PHYS 32562 Electronics4 C PHYS 31512 PHYS 32551 
PHYS 32572 Nanoscience3 O/C PHYS 12542 
PHYS 12552 - 
PHYS 32582 Introduction to Cosmology and 
Astrophysics3,5,6 O/C A/L Physics - 
Handbook-2024/2025, Faculty of Science, University of Kelaniya 
91 
 
 
 
 
Subject: Physics (PHYS) 
 BSc Hons 
 Course Units Status Pre-requisite 
Year of 
Study 
4 
PHYS 43793 Advanced Physics Laboratory - I 
C 
All PHYS 
Compulsory 
Course Units 
PHYS 43875 Advanced Physics Laboratory - II 
PHYS 43888 Research Project 
PHYS 44764 Classical Mechanics 
PHYS 44774 Quantum Mechanics 
PHYS 44784 Advanced Electronics1 
PHYS 44804 Statistical Physics 
PHYS 44814 Special Topics in Physics2 
PHYS 44824 Condensed Matter Physics 
PHYS 44834 Theory of Relativity and Cosmology 
PHYS 44854 Electrodynamics 
PHYS 44864 Nuclear Physics and Fundamental Particles 
 
1Offered for students who have not followed Electronics as a subject 
2Offered for students who have followed Electronics as a subject 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Handbook-2024/2025, Faculty of Science, University of Kelaniya 
92 
 
 
 
1Offered for BSc in Environmental Conservation and Management 
2Compulsory for BSc Hons in Plant Biology 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Subject: Plant Biology (PLBL) 
BSc 
 Course Units Status Pre-requisite Co-requisite 
Year of 
Study 1 
Sem 1 
BIOL 11522 Genetics C G.C.E. A/L 
(Biology) - 
PLBL 11543 Plant Evolution and 
Identification1 C G.C.E. A/L  - 
Year of 
Study 1 
Sem 2 
 
PLBL 12513 Cellular and Plant 
Developmental Biology C All BIOL course 
units  
PLBL 12523 Microbial Biology C BIOL 11512 - 
PLBL 12543 Floristic Resources in Sri Lanka 
and Management1 C PLBL 11543 - 
Year of 
Study 2 
Sem 3 
PLBL 21513 Plant Physiology C PLBL 12513 PLBL 21521 
PLBL 21521 Plant Physiology Laboratory C PLBL 12513 PLBL 21513 
PLBL 21532 Fundamentals of Molecular 
Biology C BIOL 11522 - 
Year of 
Study 2 
Sem 4 
PLBL 22541 Biostatistics C - - 
PLBL 22554 Plant Evolution, Diversity and 
Taxonomy C PLBL 12513 PLBL 22561 
PLBL 22561 Plant Evolution, Diversity and 
Taxonomy Laboratory C PLBL 12513 PLBL 22554 
Year of 
Study 3 
Sem 5 
PLBL 31514 Ecology and Environmental 
Resources Management C PLBL 22554 PLBL 31521 
PLBL 31521 Ecology and Environmental 
Resources Management Laboratory C PLBL 22561 PLBL 31514 
PRPL 31992 Professional Placement  O - - 
Year of 
Study 3 
Sem 6 
PLBL 32533 Plant Pathology and Post-
Harvest Technology2 C/O PLBL 21513 - 
PLBL 32542 Recombinant DNA Technology 
and Tissue Culture2 C/O PLBL 21532 - 
PLBL 32552 Horticulture2 C/O PLBL 21513 - 
Handbook-2024/2025, Faculty of Science, University of Kelaniya 
93 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Subject: Plant Biology (PLBL) 
BSc Hons 
 Course Units Status Pre-requisite 
Year of 
Study 3 
Sem 5 
PLBL 41763 Plant Physiology and Metabolism 
C 
 
All PLBL compulsory 
course units 
PLBL 41772 Geographic Information System and 
Remote Sensing in Plant Science 
PLBL 41783 Applied Microbiology 
Year of 
Study 3 
Sem 6 
PLBL 42793 Molecular and Microbial Genetics 
PLBL 42802 Conservation Genetics 
PLBL 42822 Bioethics 
PLBL 44812 Forestry and Ecosystem 
Management 
 
Year of 
Study 4 
Sem7 
PLBL 41833 Plant Breeding 
All PLBL compulsory 
course units 
PLBL 41854 Plant Systematics and Bioinformatics 
PLBL 41863 Biotechnology 
PLBL 43872 Term Paper and Presentation 
PLBL 44843 Fungi in Ecosystem Processes and 
Soil Nutrient Dynamics 
Year of 
Study 4 
Sem 8 
PLBL 43882 Field Botany 
PLBL 42893 Crop Evolution and Bioprospecting 
PLBL 42903 Environmental Sustainability 
PLBL 43918 Research Project - Dissertation 
Handbook-2024/2025, Faculty of Science, University of Kelaniya 
94 
 
 
Subject: Pure Mathematics (PMAT) 
BSc  
 Course Units Status Pre-requisite Co-requisite 
Year of 
Study 
1 
Sem 1 
PMAT 11203 Topics in Basic Mathematics1 A - - 
PMAT 11212 Mathematics for Computing Ia,b C - - 
 
PMAT 11223 Discrete Mathematics I 
 
C 
G.C.E. A/L 
Combined 
Mathematics 
 
- 
 
PMAT 11232 Matrix Algebra 
 
C 
G.C.E. A/L 
Combined 
Mathematics 
 
- 
Year of 
Study 
1 
Sem 2 
PMAT 12203 Introduction to Calculus1 A PMAT 11203 - 
PMAT 12212 Mathematics for Computing IIa,b C PMAT 11212 - 
PMAT 12242 Discrete Mathematics II C PMAT 11223 - 
PMAT 12253 Theory of Calculus C PMAT 11223 - 
Year of 
Study 
2 
Sem 3 
PMAT 21263 Linear Algebra C PMAT 11232 - 
 
PMAT 21272 Infinite Series 
 
C 
 
PMAT 12253 
 
- 
Year of 
Study 
2 
Sem 4 
PMAT 22213 Mathematical Methods for 
Computingb 
O PMAT 12212 - 
PMAT 22282 Ordinary Differential Equations C PMAT 12253 - 
PMAT 22293 Functions of Several Variables C PMAT 21263 - 
Year of 
Study 
3 
Sem 5 
PMAT 31212 Mathematics for Computing IIIa C PMAT 12212 - 
PMAT 31303 Complex Variables C PMAT 22293 - 
PMAT 31312 Abstract Algebra C/O PMAT 21263 - 
 
 
PRPL 31992 Professional Placement 
 
 
O 
All Year 1 and 
2 Compulsory 
PMAT course 
modules  
 
- 
Year of 
Study 
3 
Sem 6 
PMAT 32322 Mathematical Methods C/O PMAT 22293 - 
 
PMAT 32332 Geometry 
 
O 
 
PMAT 22293 
 
- 
PMAT 32342 Number theory O PMAT 12242 - 
 
1Available only for students who have not offered combined Mathematics for GCE (A/L) Examination 
aFor BSc Hons (MIT/IT) degree programme 
bFor BSc Hons (SENG) degree programme 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Handbook-2024/2025, Faculty of Science, University of Kelaniya 
95 
 
 
Subject: Pure Mathematics 
BSc Hons 
 Course Units Status Pre-requisite Co-requisite 
Year of 
Study 3 
Sem 5 
PMAT 41343 Complex Analysis C PMAT 22293 - 
PMAT 41353 Differential Geometry O PMAT 22293 - 
Year of 
Study 3 
Sem 6 
PMAT 42363 Theory of Riemann Integration C PMAT 12253 - 
PMAT 42373 Advanced Mathematical 
Methods 
 
O 
PMAT 22293, 
PMAT 22282 
- 
PMAT 42383 Graph theory O PMAT 21263 - 
PMAT 42443 Advanced Geometry O PMAT 22293 - 
Year of 
Study 3 
Sem  
5 or 6 
 
 
PMAT 44962 Research Methodology1 
 
 
C/O 
 
 
- 
 
 
- 
Year of 
Study 4 
Sem 7 
PMAT 41393 Functional Analysis2 C/O PMAT 21263 - 
PMAT 41403 Topology1 C/O PMAT 21263 - 
PMAT 44413 Special Topics in Mathematics O - - 
Year of 
Study 4 
Sem  
7 & 8 
 
PMAT 43976 Research Project3 
 
C 
 
PMAT 44962 
 
- 
Year of 
Study 4 
Sem 8 
PMAT 42423 Measure Theory C PMAT 42363 - 
 
PMAT 42433 Group Theory 
 
C 
 
PMAT 21263 
 
- 
 
1Optional for Mathematical Physics students only 
2 Optional for BSc Hons (Statistics) students only 
3 Compulsory for students who do not register for AMAT 43976 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Handbook-2024/2025, Faculty of Science, University of Kelaniya 
96 
 
 
Subject: Software Engineering (SENG) 
BSc Hons 
 Course Units Status Pre-requisite 
Year of 
Study 1 
SENG 11213 Fundamentals of Computing C None 
SENG 11223 Programming Concepts C None 
SENG 11232 Engineering Foundation C None 
SENG 11243 Statistics C None 
SENG 12213 Data Structures and Algorithms  C SENG 11223 
SENG 12223 Database Design and Development  C None 
SENG 12233 Object Oriented Programming C SENG 11223 
SENG 12242 Management for Software Engineering I C None 
Year of 
Study 2 
SENG 21213 Computer Architecture and Operating Systems C SENG 11213, 
SENG 11223 
SENG 21222 Software Construction C SENG 12213, 
SENG 12233 
SENG 21233 Requirement Engineering  C SENG 12223, 
SENG 12233 
SENG 21243 Software Modelling C SENG 11213 
SENG 21253 Web Application Development C SENG 11233, 
SENG 12223 
SENG 21263 Interactive Application Development O SENG 12233 
SENG 22212 Software Architecture and Design C SENG 21233 
SENG 22223 Human Computer Interaction C SENG 11223, 
SENG 12233 
SENG 22233 Software Verification and Validation C SENG 21233, 
SENG 22212 
SENG 22243 Mobile Application Development C SENG 12233 
SENG 22253 Embedded Systems Development O SENG 21213 
SENG 24213 Computer Networks C SENG 11213 
 SENG 24272 Management for Software Engineering II C SENG 12242 
Year of 
Study 3 
SENG 31212 Software Quality C 
SENG 21233, 
SENG 22212, 
SENG 34222 
SENG 31222 Information Security C 
SENG 24213, 
SENG 21213, 
SENG 12223, 
SENG 11223 
SENG 31232 Software Project Management C SENG 12242, 
SENG 24272 
SENG 31242 System Design Project C All SENG 
Modules 
SENG 31252 Professional Practice C None 
SENG 34262 Research Methods C SENG 11243 
SENG 31272 Internet of Things O SENG 22253 
SENG 31282 Computer Network Management O SENG 24213 
SENG 31292 Enterprise Information Systems O SENG 11213 
SENG 31313 Advanced Web Applications Development O SENG 21253 
SENG 31323 Mobile Computing Technology O SENG 22243 
SENG 31333 Business Intelligence and Management Support 
Systems O SENG 12233 
SENG 31343 Health Information Management O SENG 21233 
SENG 31353 Game Development Technology O SENG 11213 
SENG 31363 Business Systems Modelling and Optimization O SENG 11243 
Handbook-2024/2025, Faculty of Science, University of Kelaniya 
97 
 
SENG 32216 Internship  C  All Previous SENG 
Modules 
SENG 34213 System Development Project  C  SENG 31242 
SENG 34222 Software Process  C  SENG 21233 
Year of 
Study 4 
SENG 41212 Software Evolution C SENG  22212 
SENG 41222 Software Metrics and Measurements C SENG 21233, 
SENG 22233 
SENG 41233 Digital Image Processing O 
SENG 11213, 
SENG 11223, 
SENG 12233, 
PMAT 22213 
SENG 41242 Advanced Databases O SENG 12223 
SENG 41252 Advanced Computer Networks O SENG 24213 
SENG 41262 Speech Interfaces O  SENG 22223, 
SENG 22212 
SENG 41272 Formal Methods O SENG 12213 
SENG 41283 Distributed and Cloud Computing O SENG 31313 
SENG 41293 Mobile Web Application Development O SENG 31323  
SENG 41303 Big Data Infrastructure O SENG 31333 
SENG 41313 Health Information Systems Design and 
Development O SENG 31343 
SENG 41323 Games Design, Artwork and Programming O SENG 12213, 
SENG 31353 
SENG 41333 Computer-based Operations Management O SENG 31363 
SENG 42273 Semantic Web and Ontological Engineering O SENG 41283 
SENG 42283 Mobile Networks O SENG 24213, 
SENG 31323 
SENG 42293 Big Data Analytics O SENG 41303 
SENG 42303 Medical Imaging and Biomedical Signal 
Processing O SENG 41313 
SENG 42313 Advanced Topics in Game Design and 
Animation O SENG 41323 
SENG 42323 Business Process Engineering O SENG 41333 
SENG 43216 Software Engineering Research Project C SENG 34262 
SENG 44212 Software Safety and Reliability C SENG 22212, 
SENG 22233 
SENG 44222 Usability Engineering O SENG 22223 
SENG 44232 Software Management O SENG 22212 
SENG 44242 Machine Learning  O  SENG 12213 
SENG  44252 Computer Graphics  O 
SENG 11213, 
SENG 11223, 
SENG 12233, 
PMAT 11212, 
PMAT 12212, 
PMAT 22213 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Handbook-2024/2025, Faculty of Science, University of Kelaniya 
98 
 
 
 
1Compulsory only for BSc Hons (Statistics) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Subject: Statistics1 (STAT) 
BSc 
 Course Units Status Pre-requisite 
Year of 
Study 1 
Sem 1 
STAT 11613 Fundamentals of Statistics C A/L Combined 
Mathematics/ 
Mathematics 
STAT 11621 Statistical Laboratory C 
STAT 11632 Optimization I C 
Year of 
Study 1 
Sem 2 
STAT 12643 Probability Distributions and Applications I C STAT 11613 
 
STAT 12652 Optimization II C STAT 11632 
STAT14552 Statistics for Natural Sciences A - 
Year of 
Study 2  
Sem 3 
STAT 21613 Probability Distributions and 
Applications II C STAT12643 
STAT 21623 Statistical Inference I C STAT12643 
Year of 
Study 2 
 Sem 4 
STAT 22632 Survey Methods and Sampling 
Techniques C STAT21613 
STAT 22642 Statistical Inference II C STAT 21623 
STAT 22651 Statistical programming C STAT 21623 
Year of 
Study 3 
 Sem 5 
STAT 31613 Regression Analysis C STAT 22642 
STAT 31622 Design and Analysis of Experiments C STAT 22642 
STAT 31631 Statistical Modeling C STAT 22642 
STAT 31642 Applied Time Series Analysis1 C/O STAT 22642 
STAT 31653 Introduction to Economics O - 
 
PRPL 31992 Professional Placement O 
Core courses 
covered in first 
two years 
Year of 
Study 3  
Sem 6 
STAT 32652 Statistical Process Control O STAT22632 
STAT 32663 Corporate Capstone Project1 C/O - 
STAT 32672 Nonparametric Statistics C STAT22632 
STAT 32682 Statistical Simulation1 C/ O STAT22642 
Handbook-2024/2025, Faculty of Science, University of Kelaniya 
99 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Subject: Statistics (STAT) 
BSc Hons 
 Course Units Status Pre-requisite 
Year of 
Study 3  
STAT 41613 Stochastic Processes I C 
All STAT 
compulsory course 
units in the first 
two years 
STAT 44623 Advanced Optimization C STAT 12652 
 
STAT 44633 Bayesian Inference Decision Theory C 
All STAT 
compulsory course 
units in the first 
two years 
STAT 42643 Advanced Topics in Time Series Analysis C STAT 31642 
STAT 42653 Stochastic Processes II C STAT 41613 
STAT 42663 Generalized linear models C/O 
All STAT 
compulsory course 
units in the first 
two years 
Year of 
Study 4  
 
STAT 44673 Multivariate Data Analysis 
 
C 
All STAT 
compulsory 
course units in the 
first three years 
STAT 44683 Advanced Design and Analysis of 
Experiments 
C STAT 31613,  
STAT 31622 
 
STAT 44694 Industrial Training  
 
C 
All STAT 
compulsory 
course units in the 
first three years 
STAT 44713 Actuarial Mathematics O STAT 21613 
STAT 44723 Econometrics  O STAT 31613 
 
STAT 44733 Special Topics in Statistics 
 
O 
All STAT 
compulsory 
course units in the 
first three years 
STAT44743 Statistical Data Mining O STAT 31613,  
STAT 44633 
 
STAT 44758 Research Project/Independent Study  
 
C 
All STAT 
compulsory 
course units in the 
first three years 
Handbook-2024/2025, Faculty of Science, University of Kelaniya 
100 
 
 
 
Subject: Zoology (ZOOL) 
BSc 
 Course Units Status Pre-requisite Co-requisite 
Year of 
Study 1 
Sem1 
BIOL 11552 Evolutionary Biology and 
Biogeography C GCE A/L 
Biology - 
Year of 
Study 1 
Sem2 
ZOOL 12703 Animal Diversity C BIOL 11552 ZOOL 12711 
ZOOL 12711 Animal Diversity 
Laboratory C BIOL 11552 ZOOL 12703 
ZOOL 12722 Animal Behaviour C BIOL 11552 - 
ZOOL 12733 Faunal Diversity and Sri 
Lankan Fauna1 C* GCE A/L 
Biology - 
Year of 
Study 2 
Sem 3 
ZOOL 21702 Animal Histology and 
Physiology C ZOOL 12703 ZOOL 21711 
ZOOL 21711 Animal Histology and 
Physiology Laboratory C ZOOL 12703 ZOOL 21702 
ZOOL 21722 Developmental Biology 
and Human Genetics C ZOOL 12703 - 
Year of 
Study 2 
Sem 4 
ZOOL 22732 Terrestrial Ecology C ZOOL 12703 ZOOL 22752 
ZOOL 22742 Aquatic Ecology C ZOOL 12703 ZOOL 22752 
ZOOL 22752 Terrestrial and Aquatic 
Ecology Laboratory C ZOOL 12711 
ZOOL 22732 
& 
ZOOL 22742 
Year of 
Study 3 
Sem 5 
ZOOL 31703 Fish Biology, Population 
Dynamics and Fisheries C1/O ZOOL 12703 - 
ZOOL 31713 Entomology and Pest 
Management  O** ZOOL 12703 - 
ZOOL 31722 Environmental Impact 
Assessment  C1/O 
ZOOL 22732 
& ZOOL 
22742 
- 
PRPL 31992 Professional Placement 
 O 
All Year of 
Study 1 & 2 
ZOOL course 
units 
- 
Year of 
Study 3 
Sem 6 
ZOOL 32733 Aquaculture C1/O ZOOL 12703 - 
ZOOL 32742 Parasitology C1/O ZOOL 12703 - 
ZOOL 32752 Conservation Biology 
 C1/O 
ZOOL 12703 
or 
ZOOL12733 
- 
ZOOL 32762 Wildlife Management C1/O ZOOL 12703 - 
 
1Offered only for BSc in Environmental Conservation and Management Degree Programme 
Note: To claim Zoology as a subject for the BSc Degree programme, the student should 
accumulate a minimum of 7 credits from Year of Study 3 ZOOL optional course units, with at 
least 3 credits from each semester. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Handbook-2024/2025, Faculty of Science, University of Kelaniya 
101 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
1BSc Hons (Zoology) students must follow one of the two level 4 optional course units in the year of study 3 
2,3In the second semester of the year of study 4, the student should accumulate at least 6 credits by selecting three 
course units either from 2 or 3 
 
 
 
 
 
Subject: Zoology (ZOOL) 
BSc Hons 
 Course Units Status Pre-requisite Co-requisite 
Year of 
Study 3 
Sem 5 
ZOOL 41703 Insect Biology and Systematics C ZOOL 12703 ZOOL 41711 
ZOOL 41711 Insect Biology and Systematics 
Laboratory C ZOOL 12711 ZOOL 41703 
ZOOL 41722 Histological and Museum 
Techniques C ZOOL 12711 & 
ZOOL 21711 - 
ZOOL 41732 Research Methodology and 
Scientific Writing C - - 
ZOOL 43742 Literature Review and Seminar on 
Special Topics in Zoology C - ZOOL 41732 
ZOOL 41752 Molecular Cell Biology C ZOOL 21722 - 
Year of 
Study 3 
Sem 6 
ZOOL 42773 Statistics for Zoological Studies C ZOOL 41732 - 
 
ZOOL 42784 Molecular Genetics C ZOOL 41752 - 
ZOOL 44762 Geo-informatics for Zoological 
Studies1 O ZOOL 22732 & 
ZOOL 22752 
- 
 
ZOOL 44952 Animal Biotechnology1 O ZOOL 21702 & 
ZOOL 21722 
- 
Year of 
Study 4 
Sem 7 
 
ZOOL 43948 Research Project C ZOOL 41732 & 
ZOOL 42773 - 
 
 
ZOOL 41792 Zoology in Practice C 
All Year of 
Study 1, 2 & 3 
ZOOL 
compulsory 
course units 
- 
ZOOL 41802 Fisheries Management C ZOOL 31703 - 
ZOOL 41813 Aquaculture Management C ZOOL 32733 - 
ZOOL 41823 Ecological Interactions and 
Dynamics C ZOOL 22732 - 
 
ZOOL 41832 Agricultural Entomology C ZOOL 41703 & 
ZOOL 41711 - 
ZOOL 41842 Nematode Pest Management C ZOOL 32742 - 
Year of 
Study 4 
Sem 8 
 
ZOOL 42853 Medical and Veterinary Entomology C ZOOL 41703 & 
ZOOL 41711 - 
ZOOL 42862 Herpetology2 O ZOOL 12703  - 
ZOOL 42872 Ornithology2 O ZOOL 12703 - 
ZOOL 42882 Mammalogy2 O ZOOL 12703  - 
 
ZOOL 42892 Apiculture2 O ZOOL 41703 & 
ZOOL 41711 - 
 
ZOOL 42902 Immunology3 O ZOOL 21702 & 
ZOOL 21711 - 
ZOOL 42912 Environmental Physiology3 O ZOOL 22732 - 
ZOOL 42922 Ecotoxicology3 O ZOOL 22732 - 
ZOOL 42932 Bioinformatics3 O ZOOL 42784  
 
Handbook-2024/2025, Faculty of Science, University of Kelaniya 
102 
 
6.  List of Course Units Offered by Other Faculties to the Students in the Faculty of Science 
 
Auxiliary Course Units Offered by the Faculty of Humanities 
 
BUDDHIST CULTURE  
Year of Study1 
BUCU 11332  Ancient Buddhist Monasteries of Sri Lanka 
BUCU 12372   Buddhist Art and Architecture in Sri Lanka 
Year of Study2 
BUCU 21332   An Introduction to Buddhist Counselling 
BUCU 21342   An Introduction to Buddhist Art and Antiquities in South Asia 
BUCU 22382   An Introduction to Buddhist Rites and Ceremonies 
Year of Study3 
BUCU 31342   An Introduction to Development of Buddhist Culture in Sri Lanka 
BUCU 32372  An Introduction to Buddhism and other Religions 
 
BUDDHIST PHILOSOPHY 
Year of Study1 
BUPH 12362  Buddhism and Social Issues 
Year of Study2 
BUPH 21332  The Buddhist Attitude Towards Law, Crime and Punishment 
Year of Study3 
BUPH 32362  Buddhist Attitude to the Economy, Politics and Health 
 
BUDDHIST PSYCHOLOGY 
BUPS 12362 Introduction to Buddhist Psychiatry 
BUPS 32352 Buddhist Educational Psychology 
 
 
CHINESE 
Year of Study1 
CHIN 13372  Chinese Language and Culture I 
Year of Study2 
CHIN 23382  Chinese Language and Culture II 
Year of Study3 
CHIN 33372  Chinese Language and Culture III 
 
CHRISTIAN CULTURE  
Year of Study2 
CHCU 21332  Introduction to Biblical Greek 
CHCU 22362  Wisdom Literature 
CHCU 22372  Introduction to Biblical Hebrew 
Year of Study3 
CHCU 31332 Philosophy of Religion 
CHCU 31342 Symbolism of Meals in Scripture and Tradition 
 
FRENCH 
Year of Study1 
FREN 13352  French Grammar & Vocabulary 
Year of Study2 
FREN 23342  Grammar, Comprehension and Expression 
Year of Study3 
FREN 33342   French Grammar, Expression and Culture 
 
 
 
 
Handbook-2024/2025, Faculty of Science, University of Kelaniya 
103 
 
 
GERMAN 
Year of Study1 
GERM 13352 German Language and Culture I  
Year of Study2 
GERM 23352 German Language and Culture II  
Year of Study3 
GERM 33352 German Language and Culture III  
 
JAPANESE  
Year of Study1 
JPNS 13354  Japanese language for business purposes I 
Year of Study2 
JPNS 23354  Japanese language for business purposes II 
 
 
 
KOREAN  
Year of Study1 
KORE 13362  Korean Language and Culture I 
Year of Study2 
KORE 23352  Korean Language and Culture II 
Year of Study3 
KORE 33352  Korean Language and Culture III 
 
 
RUSS 
Year of Study1 
RUSS 13363  Russian Language & Culture I 
Year of Study2 
RUSS 23383  Russian Language & Culture II 
Year of Study3 
RUSS 33413  Russian Language & Culture III 
  
SINHALA  
Year of Study2 
SINH 22232   Practical Sinhala II 
SINH 22242  Modern Sinhala Writing Skills 
 
SPANISH 
Year of Study1 
SPNS 13352  Spanish Language and Culture I 
Year of Study2 
SPNS 23352  Spanish Language and Culture 2 
Year of Study3  
SPNS 33352  Spanish Language and Culture 3 
 
WESTERN CLASSICAL CULTURE  
Year of Study1 
WCCU 11232  Appreciating Greek and Roman Art 
Year of Study2 
WCCU 22252  Greek and Roman Drama 
Year of Study3   
WCCU 32252  Greek and Roman Literary Theory/Criticism 
 
 
 
 
Handbook-2024/2025, Faculty of Science, University of Kelaniya 
104 
 
 
 
General Education (GE)Course Units Offered by the Faculty of Social Sciences 
 
Year of Study1 
GESR 11222  Japanese Management Tools   
GESR 11232  Fitness and Wellness 
 
Year of Study2 
GEHI 22282  History of Sri Lanka 
 
Year of Study3 
GESR 31022  Event Management 
GESR 32072  Olympic Movement and Olympism  
 
 
Auxiliary Course Units Offered by the Faculty of Commerce & Management  
 
Year of Study1 
MGMT 110121  Principles of Management 
MGMT 11022  Communication Skills and Personality Development 
MGMT 12012  Fundamentals of Organizational Behaviour 
MGMT 12022  Business Accounting 
 
Year of Study2   
MGMT 21012  Human Resource Management  
MGMT 22022  Marketing Management 
MGMT 21042  Entrepreneurship 
 
Year of Study3  
MGMT 32012  Japanese Management Approach 
MGMT 32022  Financial Management 
 
1Can take either IMGT 14512 or MGMT 11012  
 
 
7. List of Certificate Courses offered by Other Faculties to the Students in the Faculty of 
Science 
 The students may register for the courses, which are not considered for the award of the (BSc/BSc 
Honours) Degree. 
 
 Certificate Courses offered by the Faculty of Humanities 
 
Certificate Course in Modern Languages (two years) offered by the Department of Modern 
Languages  
 
  Chinese 
  French 
  German 
  Japanese 
  Korean 
  Russian 
  Spanish 
 The Certificate Course in the Hindi Language (two years) offered by the Department of Hindi 
Studies 
 
 
